.\" MPlayer (C) 2000-2003 Arpad Gereoffy
.\" This man page was/is done by Gabucino, Diego Biurrun, Jonas Jermann
.\" 
.\" Run this to get a HTML version of the man page:
.\"   cat mplayer.1 | sed s/SS\ 20/SS\ 4/ | groff -man -Thtml - > manpage.html
.\" Run this to get a text version of the man page:
.\"   groff -m man -Tascii mplayer.1 | col -bx > manpage.txt
.\" 
.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" Macro definitions
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------------
.
.\" default indentation is 7, don't change!
.nr IN 7
.\" define indentation for suboptions
.nr SS 20
.\" add new suboption
.de IPs
.IP "\\$1" \n(SS
..
.\" begin of first level suboptions, end with .RE
.de RSs
.RS \n(IN+3
..
.\" begin of 2nd level suboptions
.de RSss
.PD 0
.RS \n(SS+3
..
.\" end of 2nd level suboptions
.de REss
.RE
.PD 1
..
.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" Title
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------------
.
.TH MPlayer 1 "2003-03-22"
.
.SH NAME
mplayer  \- Movie Player for Linux
.br
mencoder \- Movie Encoder for Linux

.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" Synopsis
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------------
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.nh
.B mplayer
.RI [options]\ [ \ file\  | \ URL\  | \ playlist\  | \ -\  ]
.br
.B mplayer
'in +\n[.k]u
[global options]
.I file1
[specific options] [file2] [specific options]
.br
.in
.B mplayer
'in +\n[.k]u
[global options]
.RI { "group of files and options" }
[group specific options]
.br
.in
.B mplayer
'in +\n[.k]u
.RI [ dvd | vcd | cdda | cddb | tv ] ://title
[options]
.br
.in
.B mplayer
'in +\n[.k]u
.RI [ mms[t] | http | http_proxy | rt[s]p ] ://
[user:passwd@]\fIURL\fP[:port] [options]
.br
.in
.B mencoder
[options]
.RI [ \ file\  | \ URL\  | \ -\  ]
[\-o\ file]
.br
.B gmplayer
[options]
[\-skin\ skin]
.ad
.hy

.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" Description
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------------
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mplayer
is a movie player for LINUX (runs on many other Unices and non\-x86 CPUs, see
the documentation).
It plays most MPEG/\:VOB, AVI, ASF/\:WMA/\:WMV, RM, QT/\:MOV/\:MP4, OGG/\:OGM,
VIVO, FLI, NuppelVideo, yuv4mpeg, FILM and RoQ files, supported by many
native, XAnim, and Win32 DLL codecs.
You can watch VideoCD, SVCD, DVD, 3ivx, DivX\ 3/\:4/\:5 and even WMV movies,
too (without using the avifile library).
.PP
Another great feature of MPlayer is the wide range of supported output
drivers.
It works with X11, XV, DGA, OpenGL, SVGAlib, fbdev, AAlib, DirectFB, but you
can also use GGI, SDL (and this way all their drivers), VESA (on every VESA
compatible card, even without X11), some low level card-specific drivers (for
Matrox, 3Dfx and ATI) and some hardware MPEG decoder boards, such as the
Siemens DVB, DXR2 and DXR3/\:Hollywood+.
Most of them support software or hardware scaling, so you can enjoy movies in
fullscreen.
.PP
MPlayer has an onscreen display (OSD) for status information, nice big
antialiased shaded subtitles and visual feedback for keyboard controls.
European/\:ISO 8859-1,2 (Hungarian, English, Czech, etc), Cyrillic and Korean
fonts are supported along with 10 subtitle formats (MicroDVD, SubRip,
SubViewer, Sami, VPlayer, RT, SSA, AQTitle, JACOsub and our own: MPsub) and
DVD subtitles (SPU streams, VobSub and Closed Captions).
.PP
.B mencoder
(MPlayer's Movie Encoder) is a simple movie encoder, designed to encode
MPlayer-playable movies (see above) to other MPlayer-playable formats (see
below).
It encodes to DivX4, XviD, one of the libavcodec codecs and PCM/\:MP3/\:VBRMP3
audio in 1, 2 or 3\ passes.
Furthermore it has stream copying abilities, a powerful plugin system (crop,
expand, flip, postprocess, rotate, scale, noise, rgb/\:yuv conversion) and
more.
.PP
.B gmplayer
is MPlayer with a graphical user interface.
It has the same options as MPlayer.


.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" Options
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------------
.
.SH "GENERAL NOTES"
.B Also see the HTML documentation!
.PP
Every 'flag' option has a 'noflag' counterpart, e.g.\& the opposite of the
\-fs option is \-nofs.
.PP
You can put all of the options in a configuration file which will be read
every time mplayer is run.
The system-wide configuration file 'mplayer.conf' is in your configuration
directory (e.g.\& /etc/\:mplayer or /usr/\:local/\:etc/\:mplayer), the user
specific one is '~/\:.mplayer/\:config'.
User specific options override system\-wide options and options given on the
command line override either.
The syntax of the configuration files is 'option=<value>', everything after a
\'#' is considered a comment.
Options that work without values can be enabled by setting them to 'yes' or
\'1' and disabled by setting them to 'no' or '0'.
Even suboptions can be specified in this way.

.I EXAMPLE:
.br
# Use Matrox driver by default.
.br
vo=xmga
.br
# I love practicing handstands while watching videos.
.br
flip=yes
.br
# Decode/\:encode multiple files from png, start with -mf on
.br
mf= type=png:fps=25

You can also write file-specific configuration files.
If you wish to have a config file for a file called 'movie.avi', create a file
named 'movie.avi.conf' with the file-specific options in it and put it in
~/.mplayer or in the same directory as the file.

.SH "PLAYER OPTIONS (MPLAYER ONLY)"
.TP
.B \-, \-use-stdin
Read data from stdin.
The \-idx option does not work in conjunction with this.
.TP
.B \-autoq <quality> (use with \-vf pp)
Dynamically changes the level of postprocessing depending on available spare
CPU time.
The number you specify will be the maximum level used.
Usually you can use some big number.
You have to use \-vf pp without parameters in order to use this.
.TP
.B \-autosync <factor>
Gradually adjusts the A/\:V sync based on audio delay measurements.
Specifying \-autosync\ 0, the default, will cause frame timing to be based
entirely on audio delay measurements.
Specifying \-autosync\ 1 will do the same, but will subtly change the A/\:V
correction algorithm used.
An uneven video frame rate in a movie which plays fine with \-nosound can
often be helped by setting this to an integer value greater than 1.
The higher the value, the closer the timing will be to -nosound.
Try \-autosync\ 30 to smooth out problems with sound drivers which do
not implement a perfect audio delay measurement.
With this value, if large A/\:V sync offsets occur, they will only take about
1 or 2\ seconds to settle out.
This delay in reaction time to sudden A/\:V offsets should be the only
side-effect of turning this option on, for all sound drivers.
.TP
.B \-benchmark
Prints some statistics on CPU usage and dropped frames at the end.
Use in combination with \-nosound and \-vo null for benchmarking only the
video codec.
.TP
.B \-edl <filename>
Enables edit decision list (EDL) actions during playback.
Video will be skipped over and audio will be muted and unmuted according to
the entries in the given file.
See DOCS/documentation.html#edl for details on how to use this.
.TP
.B \-edlout <filename>
Creates a new file and writes edit decision list (EDL) records to that file.
During playback, when the user hits 'i', an entry to skip over the last two
seconds of playback will be written to the file.
This provides a starting point from which the user can fine-tune EDL entries
later.
See DOCS/documentation.html#edl for details.
.TP
.B \-enqueue (GUI only)
Enqueue files given on the command line in the playlist instead of playing them
immediately.
.TP
.B \-fixed-vo (BETA CODE!)
Enforces a fixed video system for multiple files (one (un)initialisation for
all files).
Therefore only one window will be opened for all files.
Currently the following drivers are fixed-vo compliant: x11, xv, xvidix, xmga,
gl2, and svga.
.TP
.B \-framedrop (also see \-hardframedrop)
Skip displaying some frames to maintain A/\:V sync on slow systems.
Video filters are not applied to such frames.
For B frames even decoding is skipped completely.
.TP
.B \-h, \-help, \-\-help
Show short summary of options.
.TP
.B \-hardframedrop
More intense frame dropping (breaks decoding).
Leads to image distortion!
.TP
.B \-identify
Show file parameters in easy parsable format.
The wrapper script TOOLS/midentify suppresses the other mplayer output and
(hopefully) shellescapes the filenames.
.TP
.B \-input <commands>
This option can be used to configure certain parts of the input system.
Paths are relative to ~/\:.mplayer/.

.I NOTE:
.br
Autorepeat is currently only supported by joysticks.
.br
Available commands are:

.PD 0
.RSs
.IPs conf=<file>
Read alternative input.conf.
If given without pathname, ~/\:.mplayer is assumed.
.IPs ar\-delay
Delay in msec before we start to autorepeat a key (0 to disable).
.IPs ar\-rate
How many key presses per second when we autorepeat.
.IPs keylist
Prints all keys that can be bound.
.IPs cmdlist
Prints all commands that can be bound.
.IPs js\-dev
Specifies the joystick device to use (default is /dev/\:input/\:js0).
.IPs file
Read commands from the given file.
Mostly useful with a fifo.
.RE
.PD 1
.
.TP
.B \-lircconf <file>
Specifies a configuration file for LIRC (Linux Infrared Remote Control, see
http://www.lirc.org) if you don't like the default ~/\:.lircrc.
.TP
.B \-loop <number>
Loops movie playback <number> times.
0 means forever.
.TP
.B \-menu (BETA CODE)
Turn on OSD menu support.
.TP
.B \-menu-root <value> (BETA CODE)
Specify the main menu.
.TP
.B \-menu-cfg <file> (BETA CODE)
Use an alternative menu.conf.
.TP
.B \-nojoystick
Turns off joystick support.
Default is on, if compiled in.
.TP
.B \-nolirc
Turns off LIRC support.
.TP
.B \-nortc \ \ 
Turns off usage of the Linux RTC (real-time clock \- /dev/\:rtc) as timing
mechanism.
.TP
.B \-playlist <file>
Play files according to a playlist (1 file per row or Winamp or ASX format).
.TP
.B \-quiet \ \ 
Display less output and status messages.
.TP
.B \-really\-quiet \ \ 
Display even less output and status messages.
.TP
.B \-sdp
Specifies that the input file is a SDP ('Session Description Protocol')
file that describes an RTP session (see http://www.live.com/mplayer/).
.TP
.B \-shuffle \ \ 
Play files in random order.
.TP
.B \-skin <skin\ directory> (BETA CODE)
Load skin from the given directory (WITHOUT path name).

.I EXAMPLE:
.PD 0
.RSs
.IPs "\-skin fittyfene"
tries Skin/fittyfene.
It first checks
/usr/local/share/mplayer/
and afterwards ~/.mplayer/.
.RE
.PD 1
.
.TP
.B \-slave \ \ 
This option switches on slave mode.
This is intended for use of MPlayer as a backend to other programs.
Instead of intercepting keyboard events, MPlayer will read simplistic command
lines from its stdin.
The section
.B SLAVE MODE PROTOCOL
explains the syntax.
.TP
.B \-softsleep
Uses high quality software timers.
As precise as the RTC without requiring special privileges.
Comes at the price of higher CPU consumption.
.TP
.B \-speed <0.01\-100>
Set playback speed rate.
.TP
.B \-sstep <sec>
Specifies seconds between displayed frames.
Useful for slideshows.


.SH "DEMUXER/STREAM OPTIONS"
.TP
.B \-aid <id> (also see \-alang option)
Select audio channel [MPEG: 0\-31 AVI/\:OGM: 1\-99 ASF/\:RM: 0\-127
VOB(AC3): 128\-159 VOB(LPCM): 160\-191]
MPlayer prints the available IDs when running in verbose (-v) mode.
.TP
.B \-alang <two letter\ country\ code> (also see \-aid option)
Works only for DVD playback.
It selects the DVD audio language and always tries to play audio streams whose
language matches the given code.
For the list of available languages, use with the \-v option and look at the
output.

.I EXAMPLE:
.PD 0
.RSs
.IPs "\-alang hu,en"
Plays Hungarian and falls back to English if Hungarian is not available.
.RE
.PD 1
.
.TP
.B \-audio\-demuxer <number> (\-audiofile only)
Force audio demuxer type for \-audiofile.
Give the demuxer ID as defined in demuxers.h.
Use \-audio\-demuxer 17 to force .mp3 detection.
.TP
.B \-audiofile <filename>
Play audio from an external file (WAV, MP3 or Ogg Vorbis) while viewing a
movie.
.TP
.B -audiofile-cache <kBytes>
Enables caching for the stream used by -audiofile, using the specified
amount of memory.
.TP
.B \-bandwidth <value>
Specify the maximum bandwidth for network streaming (for servers that are
able to send content in different bitrates).
Useful if you want to watch live streamed media behind a slow connection.
.TP
.B \-cdrom\-device <path\ to\ device>
Override default CDROM drive name /dev/\:cdrom.
.TP
.B \-cache <kBytes>
This option specifies how much memory (in kBytes) to use when precaching a
file/\:URL.
Especially useful on slow media (default is \-nocache).
.TP
.B \-cdda <option1:option2>
This option can be used to tune the CD Audio reading feature of MPlayer.
.br
Available options are:
.
.RSs
.IPs speed=<value>
set CD spin speed
.IPs paranoia=<0\-2>
set paranoia level
.RSss
0: disable checking
.br
1: overlap checking only (default)
.br
2: full data correction and verification
.REss
.IPs generic-dev=<value>
use specified generic SCSI device
.IPs sector-size=<value>
atomic read size
.IPs overlap=<value>
force minimum overlap search during verification to <value> sectors.
.IPs toc-bias
Assume that the beginning offset of track 1 as reported in the TOC will be
addressed as LBA\ 0.
Some Toshiba drives need this for getting track boundaries correct.
.IPs toc-offset=<value>
Add <value> sectors to the values reported when addressing tracks.
May be negative.
.IPs (no)skip
(never) accept imperfect data reconstruction.
.RE
.
.TP
.B \-channels <number>
Change the number of playback channels, defaults to '2' if not specified.
If the number of output channels is bigger than the number of input channels
empty channels are inserted (unless mixing from mono to stereo, then the mono
channel is repeated in both output channels).
If the number of output channels is smaller than the number of input channels,
results depend on the audio decoder (\-afm).
MPlayer asks the decoder to decode the audio into as many channels as
specified.
Now it's up to the decoder to fulfill the requirement.
If the decoder outputs more channels than requested, the exceeding channels
are truncated.
This is usually only important when playing videos with AC3 audio (like DVDs).
In that case liba52 does the decoding by default and correctly downmixes the
audio into the requested number of channels.

.I NOTE:
.br
This option is honored by codecs (AC3 only) filters (surround) and ao drivers
(OSS at least).
.br
Available options are:

.PD 0
.RSs
.IPs 2
Stereo
.IPs 4
Surround
.IPs 6
Full 5.1
.RE
.PD 1
.
.TP
.B \-chapter <chapter\ id>[-<end\ chapter\ id>]
Specify which chapter to start playing at.
Optionally specify which chapter to end playing at (default: 1).
Examples can be found below.
.TP
.B \-csslib <filename>
(old-style DVD option) This option is used to override the default location of
libcss.so.
.TP
.B \-cuefile <filename> (see \-vcd too)
Play (S)VCD from CDRwin's (bin/cue fileformat) disk image, described by the
specified file.
.TP
.B \-demuxer <number>
Force demuxer type.
Give the demuxer ID as defined in demuxers.h.
Use \-demuxer 17 to force .mp3 detection.
.TP
.B \-dumpaudio (MPLAYER only)
Dumps raw compressed audio stream to ./\:stream.dump (useful with mpeg/\:ac3).
.TP
.B \-dumpfile <filename> (MPLAYER only)
Specify which file MPlayer should dump to.
Should be used together with \-dumpaudio / \-dumpvideo / \-dumpstream.
.TP
.B \-dumpstream (MPLAYER only)
Dumps the raw stream to ./\:stream.dump.
Useful when ripping from DVD or network.
.TP
.B \-dumpvideo (MPLAYER only)
Dump raw compressed video stream to ./\:stream.dump (not very usable).
.TP
.B \-dvd <title\ id>
Tell MPlayer which movies (specified by title id) to play.
For example sometimes '1' is a trailer, and '2' is the real movie.

.I NOTE:
.br
Sometimes deinterlacing is required for DVD playback,
see the \-vf pp=0x20000 option.
.TP
.B \-dvd\-device <path\ to\ device>
Override default DVD device name /dev/\:dvd.
.TP
.B \-dvdangle <angle\ id>
Some DVD discs contain scenes that can be viewed from multiple angles.
Here you can tell MPlayer which angles to use (default: 1).
Examples can be found below.
.TP
.B \-dvdauth <DVD\ device>
(old-style DVD option) Turns on DVD authentication using the given device.
.TP
.B \-dvdkey <CSS\ key>
(old-style DVD option) When decoding a VOB file copied undecrypted from DVD,
this option gives the CSS key needed to decrypt the VOB (the key is printed
when authenticating with the DVD drive using \-dvdauth).
.TP
.B \-dvdnav (BETA CODE!)
Force usage of libdvdnav.
.TP
.B \-forceidx
Force rebuilding of INDEX.
Useful for files with broken index (desyncs, etc).
Seeking will be possible.
You can fix the index permanently with MEncoder (see the documentation).
.TP
.B \-fps <value>
Override video framerate (if value is wrong/\:missing in the header) (float
number).
.TP
.B \-frames <number>
Play/\:convert only first <number> frames, then quit.
.TP
.B \-hr\-mp3\-seek (MP3 only)
Hi\-res mp3 seeking.
Default is: enabled when playing from external MP3 file, as we need to seek
to the very exact position to keep A/\:V sync. It can be slow especially when
seeking backwards \- it has to rewind to the beginning to find the exact
frame.
.TP
.B \-idx (also see \-forceidx)
Rebuilds INDEX of the AVI if no INDEX was found,
thus allowing seeking.
Useful with broken/\:incomplete downloads, or badly created AVIs.
.TP
.B \-mc <seconds/frame>
Maximum A-V sync correction per frame (in seconds).
.TP
.B \-mf <option1:option2:...>
Used when decoding from multiple PNG or JPEG files.
.br
Available options are:

.PD 0
.RSs
.IPs on\ \ \ 
turns on multifile support
.IPs w=<value>
width of the output (autodetect)
.IPs h=<value>
height of the output (autodetect)
.IPs fps=<value>
fps of the output (default: 25)
.IPs type=<value>
type of input files (available types: jpeg, png, tga, sgi)
.RE
.PD 1
.
.TP
.B \-ni (AVI only)
Force usage of non\-interleaved AVI parser (fixes playing
of some bad AVI files).
.TP
.B \-nobps (AVI only)
Do not use average byte/\:sec value for A\-V sync (AVI).
Helps with some AVI files with broken header.
.TP
.B \-noextbased
Disables filename-extension based demuxer selection.
By default, when file type (demuxer) cannot be detected reliably
(the file has no header or it is not reliable enough), the filename
extension is used to select demuxer. It always falls back to content-based
demuxer selection.
.TP
.B \-passwd <password> (see \-user option too)
Specify password for http authentication.
.TP
.B \-rawaudio <option1:option2:...>
This option lets you play raw audio files.
It may also be used to play audio CDs which are not 44KHz 16Bit stereo.
.br
Available options are:

.PD 0
.RSs
.IPs on\ \ \ 
use raw audio demuxer
.IPs channels=<value>
number of channels
.IPs rate=<value>
rate in samples per second
.IPs samplesize=<value>
sample size in byte
.IPs format=<value>
fourcc in hex
.RE
.PD 1
.
.TP
.B \-rawvideo <option1:option2:...>
This option lets you play raw video files.
.br
Available options are:

.PD 0
.RSs
.IPs on\ \ \ 
use raw video demuxer
.IPs fps=<value>
rate in frames per second, default 25.0
.IPs sqcif|qcif|cif|4cif|pal|ntsc
set standard image size
.IPs w=<value>
image width in pixels
.IPs h=<value>
image height in pixels
.IPs y420|yv12|yuy2|y8
set colorspace
.IPs format=<value>
colorspace (fourcc) in hex
.IPs size=<value>
frame size in Bytes
.RE
.PD 1
.
.TP
.B \-rtsp-stream-over-tcp
Used with 'rtsp://' URLs to specify that the resulting incoming RTP and RTCP
packets be streamed over TCP (using the same TCP connection as RTSP).
This option may be useful if you have a broken Internet connection that does
not pass incoming UDP packets (see http://www.live.com/mplayer/).
.TP
.B \-skipopening
Skip DVD opening (dvdnav only).
.TP
.B \-sb <byte\ position> (see \-ss option too)
Seek to byte position.
Useful for playback from CDROM images / .VOB files with junk at the beginning.
.TP
.B \-srate <Hz>
Forces the given audio playback rate, changing video speed to keep a-v sync.
MEncoder passes this value to lame for resampling.
.TP
.B \-ss <time> (see \-sb option too)
Seek to given time position.

.I EXAMPLE:
.PD 0
.RSs
.IPs "\-ss 56"
seeks to 56 seconds
.IPs "\-ss 01:10:00"
seeks to 1\ hour 10\ min
.RE
.PD 1
.
.TP
.B \-tv <option1:option2:...>
This option enables the TV grabbing feature of MPlayer.

.I NOTE:
.br
MPlayer doesn't accept colons so type dots instead in the device ID
(e.g.\& hw.0,0 instead of hw:0,0).
.br
Be advised that although you can select any samplerate when using ALSA,
the LAME audio codec is able to encode only the 'standard' samplerates.
You'll get an .avi file with no sound when you choose an odd
samplerate and use this codec.
.br
Available options are:
.
.RSs
.IPs on\ \ \ 
use TV input
.IPs noaudio
no sound
.IPs driver=<value>
available: dummy, v4l, bsdbt848
.IPs device=<value>
Specify other device than the default /dev/\:video0.
.IPs input=<value>
Specify other input than the default 0 (Television) (see output for a list)
.IPs freq=<value>
Specify the frequency to set the tuner to (e.g.\& 511.250).
Not compatible with channels parameter.
.IPs outfmt=<value>
output format of the tuner (yv12, rgb32, rgb24, rgb16, rgb15, uyvy, yuy2,
i420)
.IPs width=<value>
width of the output window
.IPs height=<value>
height of the output window
.IPs fps=<value>
framerate at which to capture video (frames per second)
.IPs buffersize=<value>
maximum size of the capture buffer in megabytes (default: dynamical)
.IPs norm=<value>
available: PAL, SECAM, NTSC
.IPs channel=<value>
Set tuner to <value> channel.
.IPs chanlist=<value>
available: europe-east, europe-west, us-bcast, us-cable, etc
.IPs channels=<channel>\-<name>,<channel>\-<name>,...
Set names for channels.
Use _ for spaces in names (or play with quoting ;-).
The channel names will then be written using OSD, and the commands tv_step_channel,
tv_set_channel and tv_last_channel will then be usable using a remote (see lirc).
Not compatible with frequency parameter.
Warning: The channel number will then be the position in the 'channels' list,
beginning with 1.
Example: use tv://1, tv://2, tv_set_channel 1, tv_set_channel 2, etc.
.IPs [brightness|contrast|hue|saturation]=<\-100\-100>
set the color equalizer on the video card.
.IPs audiorate=<value>
set audio capture bitrate
.IPs forceaudio
capture audio even if there are no audio sources reported by v4l
.IPs alsa
capture from ALSA
.IPs amode=<0\-3>
choose an audio mode:
.RSss
0: mono
.br
1: stereo
.br
2: language 1
.br
3: language 2
.REss
.IPs forcechan=<1\-2>
By default, the count of recorded audio channels is determined automatically
by querying the audio mode from the tv card.
This option allows to force stereo/\:mono recording regardless of the amode
option and the values returned by v4l.
This can be used for troubleshooting when the tv card is unable to report the
current audio mode.
.IPs adevice=<value>
set an audio device
.RSss
/dev/\:...\& for OSS
.br
hardware ID for ALSA
.REss
.IPs audioid=<value>
choose an audio output of the capture card, if it has more of them
.IPs "[volume|bass|treble|balance]=<0\-65535>"
These options set parameters of the mixer on the video capture card.
They will have no effect, if your card doesn't have one.
.IPs immediatemode=<bool>
A value of 0 means capture and buffer audio and video together
(default for mencoder).
A value of 1 (default for mplayer) means to do video capture only and let the
audio go through a loopback cable from the TV card to the soundcard.
.IPs mjpeg
Use hardware mjpeg compression (if the card supports it). 
When using this option, you do not need to specify the width and height
of the output window, because mplayer will determine it automatically 
from the decimation value (see below).
.IPs decimation=<1,2,4>
choose the size of the picture that will be compressed by hardware
mjpeg compression:
.RSss
1: full size
    704x576    PAL
    704x480    NTSC
.br
2: medium size
    352x288    PAL
    352x240    NTSC
.br
4: small size
    176x144    PAL
    176x120    NTSC
.REss
.IPs quality=<0-100>
choose the quality of the jpeg compression
.br
(quality < 60 recommended for full size)
.RE
.
.TP
.B \-user <user name> (see \-passwd option too)
Specify user name for http authentication.
.TP
.B \-vcd <track>
Play video CD track from a device or image file (see \-cuefile).
.TP
.B \-vid <id>
Select video channel [MPG: 0\-15 ASF: 0\-255].
.TP
.B \-vivo <sub\-options> (DEBUG CODE)
Force audio parameters for the .vivo demuxer (for debugging purposes).


.SH "OSD/SUB OPTIONS"
.I NOTE:
.br
See \-vf expand too.
.TP
.B \-dumpmicrodvdsub (MPLAYER only)
Convert the given subtitle (specified with the \-sub option) to the
MicroDVD subtitle format.
Creates a dumpsub.sub file in the current directory.
.TP
.B \-dumpmpsub (MPLAYER only)
Convert the given subtitle (specified with the \-sub option) to MPlayer's
subtitle format, MPsub.
Creates a dump.mpsub file in the current directory.
.TP
.B \-dumpsrtsub (MPLAYER only)
Convert the given subtitle (specified with the \-sub option) to the time-based
SubViewer (SRT) subtitle format.
Creates a dumpsub.srt file in the current directory.
.TP
.B \-dumpjacosub (MPLAYER only)
Convert the given subtitle (specified with the \-sub option) to the time-based
JACOsub subtitle format.
Creates a dumpsub.js file in the current directory.
.TP
.B \-dumpsami (MPLAYER only)
Convert the given subtitle (specified with the \-sub option) to the time-based
SAMI subtitle format.
Creates a dumpsub.smi file in the current directory.
.TP
.B \-dumpsub (MPLAYER only) (BETA CODE)
Dumps the subtitle substream from VOB streams.
See -dump*sub and -vobsubout* options too.
.TP
.B \-ifo <vobsub\ ifo\ file>
Indicate the file that will be used to load palette and frame size for VOBSUB
subtitles.
.TP
.B \-ffactor <number>
Resample alphamap of the font.
Can be:

.PD 0
.RSs
.IPs 0\ \ \ \ 
plain white fonts
.IPs 0.75\ \ 
very narrow black outline (default)
.IPs 1\ \ \ \ 
narrow black outline
.IPs 10\ \ \ 
bold black outline
.RE
.PD 1
.
.TP
.B \-font <path\ to\ font.desc\ file>
Search for the OSD/\:SUB fonts in an alternative directory (default for normal
fonts: ~/\:.mplayer/\:font/\:font.desc, default for FreeType fonts:
~/.mplayer/\:subfont.ttf).

.I NOTE:
.br
With FreeType, this option determines path to the text font file.
.br
The \-subfont-* options are available only with FreeType support compiled in.

.I EXAMPLE:
.PD 0
.RSs
\-font ~/\:.mplayer/\:arial\-14/\:font.desc
.br
\-font ~/\:.mplayer/\:arialuni.ttf
.RE
.PD 1
.
.TP
.B \-noautosub
Turns off automatic loading of subtitle files.
.TP
.B \-overlapsub
Enables overlapping subtitles support for all subtitles formats.
.TP
.B \-nooverlapsub
Disables overlapping subtitles support for all subtitles formats (default
behaviour is to enable the support only for specific formats).
.TP
.B \-osdlevel <0\-3> (MPLAYER only)
Specifies which mode the OSD should start in.

.PD 0
.RSs
.IPs 0
subtitles only
.IPs 1
volume + seek (default)
.IPs 2
volume + seek + timer + percentage
.IPs 3
volume + seek + timer + percentage + total time
.RE
.PD 1
.
.TP
.B \-sid <id> (also see \-slang option)
Turns on DVD subtitle displaying.
Also, you MUST specify a number which corresponds to a DVD subtitle language
(0\-31).
For the list of available subtitles, use with the \-v option and look at the
output.
.TP
.B \-slang <two\ letter\ country\ code> (also see \-sid option)
Works only for DVD playback.
Turns on/\:selects DVD subtitle language.
For the list of available subtitles, use with the \-v option and look at the
output.

.I EXAMPLE:
.PD 0
.RSs
.IPs "\-slang hu,en"
Selects Hungarian and falls back to English if Hungarian is not available.
.RE
.PD 1
.
.TP
.B \-sub <subtitle\ file>
Use/\:display this subtitle file.
.TP
.B \-sub-bg-alpha <0\-255>
Specify the alpha channel value for subtitles and OSD backgrounds.
Big values mean more transparency.
The 0 value is an exception and means completly transparent.
.TP
.B \-sub-bg-color <0\-255>
Specify the color value for subtitles and OSD backgrounds.
Currently subtitles are grayscale so this value is equivalente to the
intensity of the color.
The 255 value means white and 0 black.
.TP
.B \-subcc \ 
Display DVD Closed Caption (CC) subtitles.
These are NOT the VOB subtitles, these are special ASCII subtitles for the
hearing impaired encoded in the VOB userdata stream on most region 1 DVDs.
CC subtitles have not been spotted on DVDs from other regions so far.
.TP
.B \-subcp <codepage>
If your system supports iconv(3), you can use this option to
specify codepage of the subtitle.

.I EXAMPLE:
.PD 0
.RSs
\-subcp latin2
.br
\-subcp cp1250
.RE
.PD 1
.
.TP
.B \-sub\-demuxer <number> (BETA CODE)
Force subtitle demuxer type for \-subfile.
.TP
.B \-subdelay <sec>
Delays subtitles by <sec> seconds.
Can be negative.
.TP
.B \-subfont-autoscale <0\-3>
Sets the autoscale mode.

.I NOTE:
.br
Zero means that text-scale and osd-scale are font heights in points.
.br
The mode can be:

.PD 0
.RSs
.IPs 0
no autoscale
.IPs 1
proportional to movie height
.IPs 2
proportional to movie width
.IPs 3
proportional to movie diagonal (default)
.RE
.PD 1
.
.TP
.B \-subfont-blur <0\-8>
Sets the font blur radius (default: 2).
.TP
.B \-subfont-encoding <value>
Sets the font encoding.
When set to 'unicode', all the glyphs from the font file will be rendered and
unicode will be used (default: unicode).
.TP
.B \-subfont-osd-scale <0\-100>
Sets the osd elements autoscale coefficient (default: 6).
.TP
.B \-subfont-outline <0\-8>
Sets the font outline thickness (default: 2).
.TP
.B \-subfont-text-scale <0\-100>
Sets the subtitle text autoscale coefficient (percentage of the
screen size) (default: 5).
.TP
.B \-subfps <rate>
Specify frame/\:sec rate of subtitle file (float number),
default: the same fps as the movie.

.I NOTE:
.br
ONLY for frame\-based SUB files, i.e.\& NOT MicroDVD format.
.TP
.B \-subfile <filename> (BETA CODE)
Currently useless.
Same as \-audiofile, but for subtitle streams (OggDS?).
.TP
.B \-subpos <0\-100> (useful with \-vf expand)
Specify the position of subtitles on the screen.
The value is the vertical position of the subtitle in % of the screen height.
.TP
.B \-subalign <0\-2>
Specify how subtitles should be aligned with subpos.
0 means align at top (original/default behavior), 1 means align at center, and
2 means align at bottom.
.TP
.B \-subwidth <10\-100>
Specify the maximum width of subtitles on the screen.
Useful for TV-out.
The value is the width of the subtitle in % of the screen width.
.TP
.B \-unicode
Tells MPlayer to handle the subtitle file as UNICODE.
.TP
.B \-utf8 \ \ 
Tells MPlayer to handle the subtitle file as UTF8.
.TP
.B \-sub-no-text-pp
Disables any kind of text post processing done after loading the subtitles.
Used for debug purposes.
.TP
.B \-vobsub <vobsub\ file\ without\ extension>
Specify the VobSub files that are to be used for subtitle.
This is the full pathname without extensions, i.e.\& without the '.idx',
\'.ifo' or '.sub'.
.TP
.B \-vobsubid <0-31>
Specify the VobSub subtitle id.
.TP
.B \-spualign <-1\-2>
Specify how spu (DVD/VobSub) subtitles should be aligned.
Values are the same as for -subpos, with the extra choice -1 for original
position.
.TP
.B \-spuaa <mode>
Antialiasing/scaling mode for DVD/VobSub. A value of 16 may be added
to mode in order to force scaling even when original and scaled frame
size already match, for example to smooth subtitles with the gaussian
blur. The available modes are:
.PD 0
.RSs
.IPs 0
none (fastest, very ugly)
.IPs 1
approximate (broken?)
.IPs 2
full (slow)
.IPs 3
bilinear (default, fast and not too bad)
.IPs 4
uses swscaler gaussian blur (looks very good)
.RE
.PD 1
.
.TP
.B \-spugauss <0.0\-3.0>
Variance parameter of gaussian used by -spuaa 4. Higher means more
blur. The default is 1.0.


.SH "AUDIO OUTPUT OPTIONS (MPLAYER ONLY)"
.TP
.B \-abs <value> (OBSOLETE)
Override audio driver/\:card buffer size detection, \-ao oss only
.TP
.B \-af <plugin1[=options],plugin2,...>
Activate a comma separated list of audio filters and their options.
.br
Available filters are:
.
.RSs
.IPs resample[=srate[:sloppy][:type]]
Changes the sample rate of the audio stream to an integer srate (Hz).
It only supports the 16 bit little endian format.
.IPs channels[=nch]
Change the number of channels to nch output channels.
If the number of output channels is bigger than the number of input channels
empty channels are inserted (except mixing from mono to stereo, then the mono
channel is repeated in both of the output channels).
If the number of output channels is smaller than the number of input channels
the exceeding channels are truncated.
.IPs format[=bps,f]
Select the format f and bits per sample bps used for output from the
filter layer.
The option bps is an integer and denotes Bytes per sample.
The format f is a string containing a concatenated mix of:
.br
alaw, mulaw or imaadpcm
.br
float or int
.br
unsigned or signed
.br
le or be (little or big endian)
.br
.IPs "volume[=v:sc]"
Select the output volume level.
This filter is not reentrant and can therefore only be enabled once for every
audio stream.
.RSss
v: desired gain in dB for all channels in the stream.
The gain can be set from -200dB to +40dB (where -200dB mutes the sound
completely and +40dB equals a gain of 1000).
.br
sc: enable soft clipping.
.REss
.IPs "pan[=n:l01:l02:..l10:l11:l12:...ln0:ln1:ln2:...]"
Mixes channels arbitrarily, see DOCS/sound.html for details.
.RSss
n: number of output channels (1 - 6).
.br
lij: how much of input channel j is mixed into output channel i.
.REss
.IPs "sub[=fc:ch]"
Add sub-woofer channel.
.RSss
fc: Cutoff frequency for low-pass filter (20Hz to 300Hz) default is 60Hz.
.br
ch: channel number for the sub-channel.
.REss
.IPs "surround[=d]"
Decoder for matrix encoded surround sound, works on many 2 channel files.
.RSss
d: delay time in ms for the rear speakers (0ms to 1000ms) default is 15ms.
.REss
.IPs delay[=ch1:ch2:...]
Delays the sound output.
Specify the delay separately for each channel in milliseconds (floating point
number between 0 and 1000).
.RE
.
.TP
.B \-af-adv <force=(0\-3):list=(filters)> (see -af option too)
Specify advanced audio filter options:
.
.RSs
.IPs force=<0-3>
Forces the insertion of audio filters to one of the following:
.RSss
0: Completely automatic insertion of filters (default)
.br
1: Optimize for speed
.br
2: Optimize for accuracy
.br
3: Turn off auto
.REss
.IPs list=<filters>
Same as -af (see -af option).
.RE
.
.TP
.B \-ao <driver1[:device],driver2,...[,]>
Specify a priority list of audio output drivers (optionally with device) to be
used.
\'device' is valid with SDL, too, it means subdriver then.

.I NOTE:
.br
To get a full list of available drivers, see \-ao help.
.br
If the list has a trailing ',' it will fallback to drivers not listed.

.I EXAMPLE
.PD 0
.RSs
.IPs "\-ao oss:/\:dev/\:dsp2,oss:/\:dev/\:dsp1,"
try to use OSS with the specified sound devices and fallback to others if it
fails
.IPs "\-ao sdl:esd"
specify the SDL subdriver
.RE
.PD 1
.
.TP
.B \-aofile <filename>
Filename for \-ao pcm.
.TP
.B \-aop <list=plugin1,plugin2...:option1=value1:opt2=val2...>
Specify audio plugin(s) and their options (see documentation too).
.br
Available options are:
.
.RSs
.IPs list=[plugins]
comma separated list of plugins (resample, surround, format, volume,
extrastereo, volnorm)
.IPs delay=<sec>
example plugin, do not use.
.IPs format=<format>
output format (format plugin only)
.IPs fout=<Hz>
output frequency (resample plugin only)
.IPs volume=<0\-255>
volume (volume plugin only)
.IPs mul=<value>
stereo coefficient (default: 2.5) (extrastereo plugin only)
.IPs softclip
compressor / 'soft\-clipping' capabilities (volume plugin only)
.RE
.
.TP
.B \-delay <sec>
Audio delay in seconds (may be +/\:\- float value).
.TP
.B \-format <0\-8192>
Select the format used for output from the filter layer (according to the
defines in libao2/afmt.h):

.PD 0
.RSs
.IPs 1
Mu-Law
.IPs 2
A-Law
.IPs 4
Ima-ADPCM
.IPs 8
Signed 8-bit
.IPs 16
Unsigned 8-bit
.IPs 32
Unsigned 16-bit (Little-Endian)
.IPs 64
Unsigned 16-bit (Big-Endian)
.IPs 128
Signed  16-bit (Little-Endian)
.IPs 256
Signed 16-bit (Big-Endian)
.IPs 512
MPEG (2) Audio
.IPs 1024
AC3
.IPs 4096
Signed 32-bit (Little-Endian)
.IPs 8192
Signed 32-bit (Big-Endian)
.RE
.PD 1
.
.TP
.B \-mixer <device>
This option will tell MPlayer to use a different device for mixing than
/dev/\:mixer.
.TP
.B \-nowaveheader (-ao pcm only)
Don't include wave header.
Used for RAW PCM.


.SH "VIDEO OUTPUT OPTIONS (MPLAYER ONLY)"
.TP
.B \-aa* (\-vo aa only)
You can get a list and an explanation of available options executing
.I mplayer \-aahelp
.TP
.B \-bpp <depth>
Use different color depth than autodetect.
Not all \-vo drivers support it (fbdev, dga2, svga, vesa).
.TP
.B \-brightness <\-100\-100>
Adjust brightness of video output (default 0).
It changes intensity of RGB components of video signal from black to white
screen.
.TP
.B \-contrast <\-100\-100>
Adjust contrast of video output (default 0).
Works in similar manner as brightness.
.TP
.B \-dfbopts <value> (\-vo directfb2 only)
Specify a parameter list for the directfb driver.
.TP
.B \-display <name>
Specify the hostname and display number of the X server you want to display
on.

.I EXAMPLE:
.PD 0
.RSs
\-display xtest.localdomain:0
.RE
.PD 1
.
.TP
.B \-double
Enables doublebuffering.
Fixes flicker by storing two frames in memory, and displaying one while
decoding another.
Can affect OSD.
Needs twice the memory of a single buffer, so it won't work on cards with
very little video memory.
.TP
.B \-dr \ \ \ 
Turns on direct rendering (not supported by all codecs and video outputs)
(default is off).
Warning: may cause OSD/\:SUB corruption!
.TP
.B \-dxr2 <option1:option2:...>
This option is used to control the dxr2 driver.
Note: The lavc filter is now auto inserted if you try to play a non MPEG1/2
format so all formats supported by MPlayer should play out of the box (if
you have the CPU power needed to encode on the fly).
The overlay chipset used on the dxr2 is of pretty bad quality but the default
settings should work for everybody.
The OSD may be usable with the overlay (not on TV) by drawing it in the
colorkey.
With the default colorkey settings you may get variable results, usually you
will see the colorkey around the characters or some other funny effect.
But if you properly adjust the colorkey settings you should be able to get
acceptable results.
.
.RSs
.IPs ar-mode=<value>
aspect ratio mode (0 = normal, 1 = pan scan, 2 = letterbox (default))
.IPs iec958\-encoded/\:decoded
iec958 output mode
.IPs mute
mute sound output
.IPs ucode=<value>
path to the microcode
.RE
.RS

.I TV Out
.RE
.RSs
.IPs 75ire
enable 7.5 IRE
.IPs bw\ \ \ 
b/\:w TV output
.IPs color
color TV output
.IPs interlaced
interlaced TV output
.IPs macrovision=<value>
macrovision mode (0 = off (default), 1 = agc, 2 = agc 2 colorstripe,
3 = agc 4 colorstripe)
.IPs norm=<value>
TV norm (ntsc (default), pal,pal60,palm,paln,palnc)
.IPs square/\:ccir601\-pixel
TV pixel mode
.RE
.RS

.I Overlay
.RE
.RSs
.IPs cr-[left|right|top|bot]=<\-20\-20>
adjust the overlay cropping
.IPs ck-[rgb]min=<0\-255>
minimum value for the color key
.IPs ck-[rgb]max=<0\-255>
maximum value for the color key
.IPs ck-[rgb]=<0\-255>
color key values
.IPs ignore\-cache
do not use the VGA cache
.IPs ol-osd
enable the osd hack on the overlay
.IPs ol[hwxy]\-cor=<value>
adjust the overlay size and position in case it doesn't match the window
perfectly
.IPs overlay
enable the overlay
.IPs overlay-ratio=<1\-2500>
tune the overlay (default 1000)
.IPs update\-cache
recreate the VGA cache
.RE
.
.TP
.B \-fb <device> (fbdev or DirectFB only)
Specifies the framebuffer device to use.
By default it uses /dev/\:fb0.
.TP
.B \-fbmode <modename> (fbdev only)
Change video mode to the one that is labelled as <modename> in
/etc/\:fb.modes.

.I NOTE:
.br
VESA framebuffer doesn't support mode changing.
.TP
.B \-fbmodeconfig <filename> (fbdev only)
Use this configuration file instead of the default /etc/\:fb.modes.
Only valid for the fbdev driver.
.TP
.B \-forcexv (SDL only)
Force using XVideo.
.TP
.B \-fs \ \ \ 
Fullscreen playing (centers movie, and makes black
bands around it).
Toggle it with the 'f' key (not all video outputs support it).
See also \-zoom.
.TP
.B \-fsmode-dontuse <0-31> (OBSOLETE) (use \-fs option)
Try this option if you still experience fullscreen problems.
.TP
.B \-fstype <type1,type2,...>
Specify a priority list of fullscreen layer setting modes to be
used.

The default order is "layer,stays_on_top,above,fullscreen". It will be used
as a fallback in case of specifying incorrect or unsupported modes.
.br
If you experience problems with fullscreen window being covered by other
windows try using a different order.

.I NOTE:
.br
See \-fstype help for a full list of available modes.
.TP
.B \-geometry x[%][:y[%]] or [WxH][+x+y]
Adjust where the output is on the screen initially.
The x and y specifications are in pixels measured from the top-right of the
screen to the top-right of the image being displayed, however if a percentage
sign is given after the argument it turns the value into a percentage of the
screen size in that direction.
It also supports the standard option format to the standard X \-geometry
option.
The values given must be integers.

Note: This option is only supported by one vo: xv.

.I EXAMPLE:
.PD 0
.RSs
.IPs 50:40
Places the window at x=50, y=40
.IPs 50%:50%
Places the window in the middle of the screen
.IPs 100%
Places the window at the top left corner of the screen
.IPs 100%:100%
Places the window at the bottom left corner of the screen
.RE
.PD 1
.
.TP
.B \-guiwid <window\ id>
This tells the GUI to also use an X11 window and stick itself to the bottom
of the video, which is useful to embed a mini-GUI in a browser (with the
mplayerplug-in for instance).
.TP
.B \-hue <\-100\-100>
Adjust hue of video signal (default: 0).
You can get colored negative of image with this option.
.TP
.B \-icelayer <0\-15> (icewm only)
Sets the layer of the fullscreen window of mplayer for icewm.

.PD 0
.RSs
.IPs 0
Desktop
.IPs 2
Below
.IPs 4
Normal
.IPs 6
OnTop
.IPs 8
Dock
.IPs 10
AboveDock
.IPs 12
Menu (default)
.RE
.PD 1
.
.TP
.B \-jpeg <option1:option2:...> (\-vo jpeg only)
Specify options for the JPEG output.
.br
Available options are:

.PD 0
.RSs
.IPs [no]progressive
Specify standard or progressive JPEG.
.IPs [no]baseline
Specify use of baseline or not.
.IPs optimize=<value>
Optimization factor [0-100]
.IPs smooth=<value>
Smooth factor [0-100]
.IPs quality=<value>
Quality factor [0-100]
.IPs outdir=<value>
Directory to save the JPEG files
.RE
.PD 1
.
.TP
.B \-monitor_dotclock <dotclock\ (or\ pixelclock) range> (fbdev and vesa only)
Look into etc/\:example.conf for further information and in DOCS/\:video.html.
.TP
.B \-monitor_hfreq <horizontal frequency range> (fbdev and vesa only)
.TP
.B \-monitor_vfreq <vertical frequency range> (fbdev and vesa only)
.TP
.B \-monitoraspect <ratio>
Set aspect ratio of your monitor or TV screen.
See also \-aspect for movie aspect.

.I EXAMPLE:
.PD 0
.RSs
\-monitoraspect 4:3  or 1.3333
.br
\-monitoraspect 16:9 or 1.7777
.RE
.PD 1
.
.TP
.B \-nograbpointer
Do not grab mouse pointer after VidMode change (\-vm), useful for multihead
setup.

.TP
.B \-nokeepaspect
Do not keep window aspect ratio when resizing X11 windows (Works currently only
with \-vo x11, xv, xmga and xvidix and your window manager needs to understand
window aspect hints.).

.TP
.B \-noslices
Disable drawing video by 16-pixel height slices/\:bands, instead draws the
whole frame in a single run.
May be faster or slower, depending on card/\:cache.
It has effect only with libmpeg2 and libavcodec codecs.
.TP
.B \-panscan <0.0\-1.0>
Enables Pan & Scan functionality, i.e.\& in order to display a 16:9 movie
on a 4:3 display, the sides of the movie are cropped to get a 4:3 image
which fits the screen.
This function works only with the xv, xmga, mga and xvidix video out drivers.
.br
The range controls how much of the image is cropped.
.TP
.B \-rootwin
Play movie in the root window (desktop background) instead of opening
a new one.
Works only with x11, xv, xmga and xvidix drivers.
.TP
.B \-saturation <\-100\-100>
Adjust saturation of video output (default: 0).
You can get grayscale output with this option.
.TP
.B \-screenw <pixels> \-screenh <pixels>
If you use an output driver which can't know the resolution of the screen
(fbdev/\:x11 and/\:or TVout) this is where you can specify the horizontal and
vertical resolution.
.TP
.B \-stop_xscreensaver
Turns off xscreensaver at startup and turns it on again on exit.
.TP
.B \-vm \ \ \ 
Try to change to a better video mode.
dga, x11/\:xv (XF86VidMode) and sdl output drivers support it.
.TP
.B \-vo <driver1[:device],driver2,...[,]>
Specify a priority list of video output drivers (optionally with device) to be
used.
\'device' is valid with SDL and GGI, too, it means subdriver then.

.I NOTE:
.br
See \-vo help for a full list of available drivers.
.br
If the list has a trailing ',' it will fallback to drivers not listed.

.I EXAMPLE:
.PD 0
.RSs
.IPs "\-vo xmga,xv,"
Try Matrox kernel driver, then Xv driver, then others
.br
.IPs "\-vo sdl:aalib"
specify the SDL subdriver
.RE
.PD 1
.
.TP
.B \-vsync \ \ 
Enables VBI for vesa.
.TP
.B \-wid <window\ id>
This tells MPlayer to use a X11 window, which is useful to embed MPlayer in a
browser (with the plugger extension for instance).
.TP
.B \-xineramascreen <0\-...>
In Xinerama configurations (i.e.\& a single desktop that spans across multiple
displays) this option tells MPlayer which screen to display movie on.
.TP
.B \-z <0\-9>
Specifies compression level for PNG output (-vo png)

.PD 0
.RSs
.IPs 0
no compression
.IPs 9
max compression
.RE
.PD 1
.
.TP
.B \-zrbw (\-vo zr only)
Display in black and white (for optimal performance, this option can be
combined with the 'decode only in black and white' option for codecs
belonging to the FFmpeg family).
.TP
.B \-zrcrop <[width]x[height]+[x offset]+[y offset]> (\-vo zr only)
Select a part of the input image for display, multiple occurences of this
option switch on cinerama mode.
In cinerama mode the movie is distributed over more than one TV (or beamer) to
create a larger screen.
Options appearing after the n\-th \-zrcrop apply to the n\-th MJPEG card, each
card should at least have a \-zrdev in addition to the \-zrcrop.
For examples, see the output of \-zrhelp and the Zr section of the
documentation.
.TP
.B \-zrdev <device> (\-vo zr only)
Specify the device special file that belongs to your MJPEG card, by default
this driver takes the first v4l device it can find.
.TP
.B \-zrfd (\-vo zr only)
Force decimation: Decimation, as specified by \-zrhdec and \-zrvdec, only
happens if the hardware scaler can stretch the image to its original size.
Use this option to force decimation.
.TP
.B \-zrhelp (\-vo zr only)
Display a list of all \-zr* options, their default values and an example of
cinerama mode.
.TP
.B \-zrnorm <norm> (\-vo zr only)
Specify norm PAL/\:NTSC, the default is 'no change'.
.TP
.B \-zrquality <1\-20> (\-vo zr only)
A number from 1 to 20 representing the jpeg encoding quality.
1 gives the best quality and 20 gives very bad quality.
.TP
.B \-zrvdec <1,2,4> \-zrhdec <1,2,4> (\-vo zr only)
Vertical/\:horizontal decimation: Ask the driver to send only every 2nd or 4th
line/\:pixel of the input image to the MJPEG card and use the scaler of the
MJPEG card to strech the image to its original size.
.TP
.B \-zrxdoff <x display offset>, \-zrydoff <y display offset> (\-vo zr only)
If the movie is smaller than the TV screen, these options control the position
of the movie relative to the upper left corner of the screen.
The movie is centered by default.


.SH "DECODING/FILTERING OPTIONS"
.TP
.B \-ac <[-]codec1,[-]codec2,...[,]>
Specify a priority list of audio codecs to be used, according to their codec
name in codecs.conf.
Use a '-' before the codec name to omit it.

.I NOTE:
.br
See \-ac help for a full list of available codecs.
.br
If the list has a trailing ',' it will fallback to codecs not listed.

.I EXAMPLE:
.PD 0
.RSs
.IPs "\-ac mp3acm"
force l3codeca.acm MP3 codec
.IPs "\-ac mad,"
try libmad first, then fallback to others
.IPs "\-ac hwac3,a52,"
try hardware AC3 passthrough, then software AC3 codec, then others
.IPs "\-ac -ffmp3,"
try other codecs except FFmpeg's MP3 decoder
.RE
.PD 1
.
.TP
.B \-afm <driver1,driver2,...>
Specify a priority list of audio drivers to be used, according to their driver
name in codecs.conf.
It falls back to default if none is ok.

.I NOTE:
.br
See \-afm help for a full list of available drivers.

.I EXAMPLE:
.PD 0
.RSs
.IPs "\-afm ffmpeg"
try FFmpeg's libavcodec (mp1/\:2/\:3) codecs first
.IPs "\-afm acm,dshow"
try Win32 codecs first
.RE
.PD 1
.
.TP
.B \-aspect <ratio>
Override aspect ratio of movies.
It's autodetected on MPEG files, but can't be autodetected on most AVI files.

.I EXAMPLE:
.PD 0
.RSs
\-aspect 4:3  or \-aspect 1.3333
.br
\-aspect 16:9 or \-aspect 1.7777
.RE
.PD 1
.
.TP
.B \-flip \ 
Flip image upside\-down.
.TP
.B \-lavdopts <option1:option2:...> (DEBUG CODE)
If decoding with libavcodec, you can specify its parameters here.

.I EXAMPLE:
.PD 0
.RSs
\-lavdopts bug=1
.RE
.PD 1

.RS
.I NOTE:
.br
Just add the values of the things you want to enable.
.br
Available options are:
.RE
.
.RSs
.IPs ec\ \ \ 
error concealment:
.RSss
1: use strong deblock filter for damaged MBs
.br
2: iterative MV search (slow)
.br
3: all (default)
.REss
.IPs er=<value>
error resilience:
.RSss
.br
0: disabled
.br
1: careful (should work with broken encoders)
.br
2: normal (default) (works with compliant encoders)
.br
3: agressive (more checks but might cause problems even for valid bitstreams)
.br
4: very agressive
.REss
.IPs bug=<value>
manually work around encoder bugs:
.RSss
0: nothing
.br
1: autodetect bugs (default)
.br
2 (msmpeg4v3): some old lavc generated msmpeg4v3 files (no autodetect)
.br
4 (mpeg4): xvid interlacing bug (autodetected if fourcc==XVIX) 
.br
8 (mpeg4): UMP4 (autodetected if fourcc==UMP4)
.br
16 (mpeg4): padding bug (autodetected)
.br
32 (mpeg4): illegal vlc bug (autodetected per fourcc)
.br
64 (mpeg4): XVID and DIVX qpel bug (autodetected per fourcc/ver)
.br
128 (mpeg4): old standard qpel (autodetected per fourcc/ver)
.br
256 (mpeg4): another qpel bug (autodetected per fourcc/ver)
.br
512 (mpeg4): direct-qpel-blocksize bug (autodetected per fourcc/ver)
.br
1024 (mpeg4): edge padding bug (autodetected per fourcc/ver)
.REss
.IPs idct=<0\-99>
(see lavcopts)
For best decoding quality use the same idct algorithm for decoding and encoding.
This may come at a price in accuracy, though.
.IPs gray
grayscale only decoding (a bit faster than with color)
.RE
.
.TP
.B \-noaspect
Disable automatic movie aspect ratio compensation.
.TP
.B \-nosound
Do not play/\:encode sound.
.TP
.B \-pp <quality> (see \-vf pp option too!)
Set postprocess level of the DLL.
This option is NO LONGER USABLE with MPlayer's postprocess filter, but only
with Win32 DirectShow DLLs which have internal postprocessing routine.

The valid range of \-pp value vary on codecs, mostly
0\-6, where 0=disable 6=slowest/\:best.
.TP
.B \-pphelp (see \-vf pp option too)
Show a summary about the available postprocess filters and their usage.
.TP
.B \-ssf <mode>
Specifies SwScaler parameters.

.I EXAMPLE
.PD 0
.RSs
\-vf scale \-ssf lgb=3.0
.RE
.PD 1

.PD 0
.RSs
.IPs lgb=<0\-100>
Gaussian blur filter (luma)
.IPs cgb=<0\-100>
Gaussian blur filter (chroma)
.IPs ls=<0\-100>
sharpen filter (luma)
.IPs cs=<0\-100>
sharpen filter (chroma)
.IPs chs=<h>
chroma horizontal shifting
.IPs cvs=<v>
chroma vertical shifting
.RE
.PD 1
.
.TP
.B \-stereo <mode>
Select type of MP2/\:MP3 stereo output.

.PD 0
.RSs
.IPs 0
Stereo
.IPs 1
Left channel
.IPs 2
Right channel
.RE
.PD 1
.
.TP
.B \-sws <software\ scaler\ type> (see \-vf scale option too)
This option sets the quality (and speed, respectively) of the software scaler,
with the \-zoom option.
For example with x11 or other outputs which lack hardware acceleration.
Possible settings are:

.I NOTE:
.br
For \-sws\ 2 and 7, the sharpness can be set with the scaling parameter (p)
of \-vf scale (0 (soft) \- 100 (sharp)), for \-sws 9, it specifies the filter
length (1 \- 10).

.PD 0
.RSs
.IPs 0
fast bilinear (default)
.IPs 1
bilinear
.IPs 2
bicubic (good quality)
.IPs 3
experimental
.IPs 4
nearest neighbour (bad quality)
.IPs 5
area
.IPs 6
luma bicubic / chroma bilinear
.IPs 7
gauss
.IPs 8
sincR
.IPs 9
lanczos
.IPs 10
bicubic spline
.RE
.PD 1
.
.TP
.B \-vc <[-]codec1,[-]codec2,...[,]>
Specify a priority list of video codecs to be used, according to their codec
name in codecs.conf.
Use a '-' before the codec name to omit it.

.I NOTE:
.br
See \-vc help for a full list of available codecs.
.br
If the list has a trailing ',' it will fallback to codecs not listed.

.I EXAMPLE:
.PD 0
.RSs
.IPs "\-vc divx"
force Win32/\:VFW DivX codec, no fallback
.IPs "\-vc divx4,"
try divx4linux codec first, then fallback to others
.IPs "\-vc -divxds,-divx,"
try other codecs except Win32 DivX codecs
.IPs "\-vc ffmpeg12,mpeg12,"
try libavcodec's MPEG1/\:2 codec, then libmpeg2, then others
.RE
.PD 1
.
.TP
.B \-vf <filter1[=options],filter2,...>
Activate a comma separated list of video filters and their options.

.I NOTE:
.br
The parameters are optional and if omitted, some of them are set to default
values.
Use '-1' to keep the default value.
Parameters w:h means width x height in pixels, x:y means x;y position counted
from the upper left corner of the bigger image.
.br
To get a full list of available filters, see \-vf help.
.br
Available filters are:
.
.RSs
.IPs crop[=w:h:x:y]
Crops the given part of the image and discards the rest.
Useful to remove black bands from widescreen movies.
.RSss
w,h: Cropped width and height, defaults to original width and height.
.br
x,y: Position of the cropped picture, defaults to center.
.REss
.IPs cropdetect[=0\-255]
Calculates necessary cropping parameters and prints the recommended parameters
to stdout.
The threshold can be optionally specified from nothing (0) to everything
(255).
(default: 24)
.IPs rectangle[=w:h:x:y]
Draws a rectangle of the requested width and height at the specified
coordinates over the image (useful for testing crop parameters).
.RSss
w,h: width and height (default: -1, maximum possible width where boundaries
are still visible.
.br
x,y: top left corner position (default: -1, uppermost leftmost)
.REss
.IPs
The plugin responds to the input.conf directive 'change_rectangle'
that takes two parameters.
The first parameter can be 0 for w, 1 for h, 2 for x or 3 for y.
The second parameter is the amount of pixels by which to change the
designated rectangle boundary.
.IPs expand[=w:h:x:y:o]
Expands (not scales) movie resolution to the given value and places the
unscaled original at coordinates x, y.
Can be used for placing subtitles/\:OSD in the resulting black bands.
.RSss
w,h: expanded width,height (default: original width,height)
.br
x,y: position of original image on the expanded image (default: center)
.br
o:   OSD/subtitle rendering
    0: disable (default)
    1: enable
.REss
.IPs
Negative values for w and h are treated as offsets to the original size, e.g.
expand=0:-50:0:0 adds a 50 pixel border to the bottom of the picture.
.IPs flip
Flips the image upside down.
See also option \-flip.
.IPs mirror
Mirrors the image on the Y axis.
.IPs rotate[=<0-7>]
Rotates and flips (optional) the image +/\:\- 90 degrees.
For parameters between 4-7 rotation is only done if the movie's geometry is
portrait and not landscape.
.IPs scale[=w:h[:c[:p]]]
Scales the image with the software scaler (slow) and performs a YUV<\->RGB
colorspace conversion (also see \-sws option).
.RSss
w,h: new width/height after scaling (default: original width,height)
    Note: If -zoom is used, and underlying filters (including libvo) are
    incapable of scaling, then it defaults to d_width/\:d_height!
    -1: original width/\:height
    0:  scaled d_width/\:d_height
    -2: Calculate w/\:h using the other dimension and the prescaled aspect ratio.
    -3: Calculate w/\:h using the other dimension and the original aspect ratio.
.br
c:   chroma skipping
    0: use all available input lines for chroma
    1: use only every 2. input line for chroma
    2: use only every 4. input line for chroma
    3: use only every 8. input line for chroma
.br
p:  scaling parameter (depends upon the scaling method used)
    for -sws 2 (bicubic)  it is sharpness (0 (soft) - 100 (sharp))
    for -sws 7 (gaussian) it is sharpness (0 (soft) - 100 (sharp))
    for -sws 9 (lanczos)  it is filter length (1 - 10)
The value 0 is used for scaled (aspect) destination w/\:h.
(default: original w/\:h, destination w/\:h with \-zoom) Optionally chroma
skipping (c from 0\-3) and scaling parameters can be specified.
(see the \-sws option for details)
.REss
.IPs yuy2
Forces software YV12/\:I420 or 422P to YUY2 conversion.
Useful for video cards/\:drivers with slow YV12 but fast YUY2 support.
.IPs yvu9
Forces software YVU9 to YV12 colorspace conversion.
Deprecated in favor of the software scaler.
.IPs rgb2bgr[=swap]
RGB 24/\:32 <\-> BGR 24/\:32 colorspace conversion.
.RSss
swap: Also perform  R <\-> B swapping.
.REss
.IPs palette
RGB/\:BGR 8 \-> 15/\:16/\:24/\:32bpp colorspace conversion using palette.
.IPs format[=fourcc]
Restricts the colorspace for the next filter without doing any conversion.
Use together with the scale filter for a real conversion.
.RSss
fourcc: format name like rgb15, bgr24, yv12, etc (default: yuy2)
.REss
.IPs pp[=filter1[:option1[:option2...]]/[-]filter2...] (see \-pphelp too)
This option enables usage of MPlayer's internal postprocessing filter,
and also gives an interface where you can pass options to the named filter.
To get a list of available filters, use \-pphelp.
.br
Note that each sub-filter must be separated with a / sign.
.br
Each filter defaults to 'c' (chrominance).
.br
The keywords accept a '\-' prefix to disable the option.
.br
A ':' followed by a letter may be appended to the option to indicate its
scope:
.RSss
a: Automatically switches the filter off if the CPU is too slow.
.br
c: Do chrominance filtering, too.
.br
y: Do not do chrominance filtering (only luminance filtering).
.REss

.RS
.I EXAMPLES:
.RE
.RSss
.br
\-vf pp=hb/vb/dr/al/lb
.br
\-vf pp=hb/vb/dr/al
.br
Default filters without brightness/\:contrast correction:
.br
\-vf pp=de/\-al
.br
Enable default filters & temporal denoiser:
.br
\-vf pp=de/tn:1:2:3
.br
Deblock horizontal only luminance and switch vertical deblocking on or
off automatically depending on available CPU time:
.br
\-vf pp=hb:y/vb:a \-autoq 6
.REss
.IPs test
Generate various test patterns.
.IPs lavc[=quality:fps]
Fast software YV12 to MPEG1 conversion with libavcodec for use with DVB/\:DXR3.
Faster and of better quality than \-vf fame.
.RSss
quality:
    1 \- 31 fixed qscale
    32 \-   fixed bitrate in kBits
.br
fps: force output fps (float value) (default: 0, autodetect based on height)
.REss
.IPs fame
Fast software YV12 to MPEG1 conversion with libfame for use with DVB/\:DXR3.
.IPs dvbscale[=aspect]
Set up optimal scaling for DVB cards, scaling the X axis in hardware and
calculating the Y axis scaling in software to keep aspect.
.RSss
aspect: control aspect ratio, calculate as DVB_HEIGHT*ASPECTRATIO (default:
576*4/3=768), set it to 576*(16/9)=1024 for a 16:9 TV.
.REss
.IPs
Only useful together with expand+scale:
\-vf dvbscale,scale=-1:0,expand=-1:576:-1:-1:1,lavc
.IPs "noise[=luma[u][t|a][h][p]:chroma[u][t|a][h][p]]"
Adds noise.
.RSss
<0\-100>: luma noise
.br
<0\-100>: chroma noise
.br
u: uniform noise (gaussian otherwise)
.br
t: temporal noise (noise pattern changes between frames)
.br
a: averaged temporal noise (smoother, but a lot slower)
.br
h: high quality (slightly better looking, slightly slower)
.br
p: mix random noise with a (semi)regular pattern
.REss
.IPs "denoise3d[=luma:chroma:time]"
This filter aims to reduce image noise producing smooth images and making still
images really still (This should enhance compressibility.).
It can be given from 0 to 3 parameters.   If you omit a parameter, a reasonable
value will be inferred.
.RSss
luma:	spatial luma strength (default = 4)
.br
chroma:	spatial chroma strength (default = 3)
.br
time:	temporal strength (default = 6)
.REss
.IPs "hqdn3d[=luma:chroma:time]"
High precision/\:quality version of the denoise3d filter.
Parameters and usage are the same.
.IPs eq[=bright:cont]
Software equalizer with interactive controls just like the hardware
equalizer, for cards/\:drivers that do not support brightness and
contrast controls in hardware.
Might also be useful with MEncoder, either for fixing poorly captured
movies, or for slightly reducing contrast to mask artifacts and get by
with lower bitrates.
Initial values in the range -100 \- 100 may be given on the command line.
.IPs eq2[=gamma:contrast:brightness:saturation:rg:gg:bg]
Alternative software equalizer that uses lookup tables (very slow),
allowing gamma correction in addition to simple brightness,
contrast and saturation adjustment. Note that it uses the same MMX
optimized code as \-vf eq if all gamma values are 1.0.
The parameters are given as floating point values.
Parameters rg, gg, bg are the independent gamma values for the Red, Green
and Blue components.
Defaults are 1.0, brightness=0.0.
Value ranges are 0.1\-10 for gammas, -2\-2 for contrast (negative values result
in a negative image), -1\-1 for brightness and 0\-3 for saturation.
.IPs halfpack[=f]
Convert planar YUV 4:2:0 to half-height packed 4:2:2, downsampling luma but
keeping all chroma samples.
Useful for output to low-resolution display devices when hardware downscaling
is poor quality or is not available.
Can also be used as a primitive luma-only deinterlacer with very low cpu
usage.
By default, halfpack averages pairs of lines when downsampling.
The optional parameter f can be 0 to only use even lines, or 1 to only use
odd lines.
Any other value for f gives the default (averaging) behavior.
.IPs dint[=sense:level]
Detects and drops first of interlaced frames in video stream.
Values can be from 0.0 to 1.0 - first (default 0.1) is relative difference
between neighbor pixels, second (default 0.15) is what part of image have to
be detected as interlaced to drop the frame.
.IPs lavcdeint
Use libavcodec's deinterlace filter.
.IPs "unsharp=l|cWxH:amount[:l|cWxH:amount]"
Unsharp mask / gaussian blur.
.RSss
l: Apply effect on luma component.
.br
c: Apply effect on chroma components.
.br
WxH: width and height of the matrix, odd sized in both directions
(min = 3x3, max = 13x11 or 11x13, usually something between 3x3 and 7x7)
.br
amount: Relative amount of sharpness/\:blur to add to the image
(a sane range should be -1.5 \- 1.5).
    <0: blur
    >0: sharpen
.REss
.IPs swapuv
Swap U & V plane.
.IPs "il=[d|i][s][:[d|i][s]]"
(de)interleaves lines.
The goal of this filter is to add the ability to process interlaced images
pre-field without deinterlacing them.
You can filter your interlaced DVD and play it on a TV without breaking the
interlacing.
While deinterlacing (with the postprocessing filter) removes interlacing
permanently (by smoothing, averaging, etc) deinterleaving splits the frame into
2 fields (so called half pictures), so you can process (filter) them
independently and then re-interleave them.
.RSss
d: deinterleave
.br
i: interleave
.br
s: swap fields (exchange even & odd lines)
.REss
.IPs "field[=n]"
Extracts a single field from an interlaced image using stride arithmetic
to avoid wasting CPU time. The optional argument n specifies whether
to extract the even or the odd field (depending on whether n is even
or odd).
.IPs "detc[=var1=value2:var2=value2:...]"
Attempts to reverse the "telecine" process to recover a clean,
non-interlaced stream at film framerate. This filter is still
experimental but seems to be usable. Please be aware that there is
absolutely no use in this filter unless you see interlacing when
playing the movie! The following arguments (see syntax above) may be
used to control its behavior:
.RSss
dr: Set the frame dropping mode. 0 (default) means don't drop frames
to maintain fixed output framerate. 1 means always drop a frame when
there have been no drops or telecine merges in the past 5 frames. 2
means always maintain exact 5:4 input to output frame ratio. (Note:
use mode 1 with MEncoder!)
.br
am: Analysis mode. Available values are 0 (fixed pattern with initial
frame number specified by fr=#) and 1 (agressive search for telecine
pattern). Default is 1.
.br
fr: Set initial frame number in sequence. 0-2 are the three clean
progressive frames; 3 and 4 are the two interlaced frames. The
default, -1, means "not in telecine sequence". The number specified
here is the type for the imaginary previous frame before the movie
starts.
.br
tr0, tr1, tr2, tr3: Threshold values to be used in certain modes.
.REss
.IPs "telecine[=start]"
Apply 3:2 "telecine" process to increase framerate by 20%. This most
likely will not work correctly with mplayer, but it can be used
with 'mencoder -fps 29.97 -ofps 29.97 -vf telecine'. Both fps options are
essential! (A/V sync will break if they are wrong.) The optional start
parameter tells the filter where in the telecine pattern to start
(0-3).
.IPs "tfields[=mode]"
Temporal field separation -- split fields into frames, doubling the
output framerate. In mode 0, the filter will leave the fields
unchanged, resulting in half-height output. In mode 1, interlaced
parts of the image will be interpolated to reconstruct full-height
frames. Like the telecine filter, "tfields" will only work properly
with mencoder, and only if both -fps and -ofps are set to the desired
(double) framerate!
.IPs "boxblur=radius:power[:radius:power]"
box blur
.RSss
radius: size of the filter
.br
power: How often the filter should be applied.
.REss
.IPs "sab=rad:pf:colorDiff[:rad:pf:colorDiff]"
shape adaptive blur
.RSss
rad: blur filter strength (~0.1\-4.0) (slower if larger)
.br
pf: prefilter strength (~0.1\-2.0)
.br
colorDiff: How different the pixels are allowed to be considered.
(~0.1-100.0)
.REss
.IPs "smartblur=rad:strength:thresh[:rad:strength:thresh]"
smart blur
.RSss
rad: blur filter strength (~0.1\-5.0) (slower if larger)
.br
strength: blur (0.0\-1.0) or sharpen (-1.0\-0.0)
.br
thresh: filter all (0), filter flat areas (0\-30) or filter edges (-30\-0)
.REss
.IPs "perspective=x0:y0:x1:y1:x2:y2:x3:y3:t"
perspective correction
.RSss
x0,y0,...: coordinates of the top left, top right, bottom left, bottom right
corners
.br
t: linear (0) or cubic resampling (1)
.REss
.IPs 2xsai
Use the 2x scale and interpolate algorithm for scaling and smoothing images.
.IPs 1bpp
1bpp bitmap to YUV/BGR 8/15/16/32 conversion
.IPs down3dright[=lines]
Reposition and resize stereoscopic images.
Extracts both stereo fields and places them side by side, resizing
them to maintain the original movie aspect.
.RSss
lines: number of lines to select from the middle of the image (default: 12)
.REss
.IPs "bmovl=hidden:opaque:<fifo>"
Read bitmaps from a FIFO and display them in a window.
.
.RSss
hidden: sets the default value of the 'hidden' flag (boolean)
.br
opaque: flag switching between alphablended (transparent) and opaque (fast)
mode
.br
fifo: path/filename for the FIFO (named pipe connecting mplayer -vf bmovl
to the controlling application)
.REss

.RS
FIFO commands are:
.RE
.RSss
RGBA32 width height xpos ypos alpha clear
.br
followed by width*height*4 Bytes of raw RGBA32 data.

ABGR32 width height xpos ypos alpha clear
.br
followed by width*height*4 Bytes of raw ABGR32 data.

RGB24 width height xpos ypos alpha clear
.br
followed by width*height*3 Bytes of raw RGB32 data.

BGR24 width height xpos ypos alpha clear
.br
followed by width*height*3 Bytes of raw BGR32 data.

ALPHA width height xpos ypos alpha
.br
change alpha for area

CLEAR width height xpos ypos
.br
clear area

OPAQUE
.br
disable all alpha transparency.
Send "ALPHA 0 0 0 0 0" to enable it again.

HIDE
.br
hide bitmap

SHOW
.br
show bitmap
.REss

.RS
Arguments are:
.RE
.RSss
width, height: size of image/area
.br
xpos, ypos: start blitting at X/Y position   
.br
alpha: set alpha difference.
0 means same as original, 255 makes everything
opaque, -255 makes everything transparent.
If you set this to -255 you can then send a sequence of ALPHA-commands to set
the area to -225, -200, -175 etc for a nice fade-in-effect! ;)
.br
clear: clear the framebuffer before blitting.
1 means clear, if 0, the image will just be blitted on top of the old one, so
you don't need to send 1,8MB of RGBA32 data everytime a small part of the
screen is updated.
.REss
.RE
.
.TP
.B \-vfm <driver1,driver2,...>
Specify a priority list of video codecs to be used, according to their
names in codecs.conf.
It falls back to default if none is ok.

.I NOTE:
.br
If libdivxdecore support was compiled in, then odivx and divx4 now contains
just the same DivX4 codec, but different APIs to reach it.
For difference between them and when to use which, check the DivX4 section in
the documentation.
.br
See \-vfm help for a full list of available drivers.

.I EXAMPLE:
.PD 0
.RSs
.IPs "\-vfm ffmpeg,dshow,vfw"
try the libavcodec, then Directshow, then VFW codecs and fallback to the
others, if still none is ok
.IPs "\-vfm xanim"
try XAnim codecs first
.RE
.PD 1
.
.TP
.B \-x <x> (MPLAYER only)
Scale image to x width (if sw/\:hw scaling available).
Disables aspect calculations.
.TP
.B \-xvidopts <option1:option2:...>
Specify additional parameters when decoding with XviD.

.PD 0
.RSs
.IPs dr2\ \ 
Activate direct rendering method 2.
.IPs nodr2
Deactivate direct rendering method 2.
.RE
.PD 1
.
.TP
.B \-xy <x>
.PD 0
.RSs
.IPs "x<=8"
Scale image by factor <x>.
.IPs "x>8\ "
Set width to <x> and calculate height to keep correct aspect ratio.
.RE
.PD 1
.
.TP
.B \-y <y> (MPLAYER only)
Scale image to y height (if sw/\:hw scaling available).
Disables aspect calculations.
.TP
.B \-zoom \ 
Allow software scaling, where available.
Could be used to force scaling with \-vf scale.

.I NOTE:
.br
\-vf scale will IGNORE options \-x / \-y / \-xy / \-fs / \-aspect without
\-zoom.


.SH "ENCODING OPTIONS (MENCODER ONLY)"
.TP
.B \-audio-density <1\-50>
Number of audio chunks per second (default is 2 for 0.5s long audio chunks).

.I NOTE:
.br
CBR only, VBR ignores this as it puts each packet in a new chunk.
.TP
.B \-audio-delay <0.0\-...>
Sets the audio delay field in the header.
Default is 0.0, negative values do not work.
This does not delay the audio while encoding, but the player will see the
default audio delay, sparing you the use of the \-delay option.
.TP
.B \-audio-preload <0.0\-2.0>
Sets up audio buffering time interval (default: 0.5s).
.TP
.B \-divx4opts <option1:option2:...>
If encoding to DivX4, you can specify its parameters here.
.br
Available options are:
.
.RSs
.IPs help
get help
.IPs br=<value>
specify bitrate in
.RSss
kbit <4\-16000> or
.br
bit  <16001\-24000000>
.REss
.IPs key=<value>
maximum keyframe interval (in frames)
.IPs deinterlace
enable deinterlacing (avoid it, DivX4 is buggy)
.IPs q=<1\-5>
quality (1\-fastest, 5\-best)
.IPs min_quant=<1\-31>
minimum quantizer
.IPs max_quant=<1\-31>
maximum quantizer
.IPs rc_period=<value>
rate control period
.IPs rc_reaction_period=<value>
rate control reaction period
.IPs rc_reaction_ratio=<value>
rate control reaction ratio
.IPs crispness=<0\-100>
specify crispness/\:smoothness
.IPs pass=<1\-2>
With this you can encode 2pass DivX4 files.
First encode with pass=1, then with the same parameters, encode with
pass=2.
.IPs vbrpass=<0\-2>
Override the pass argument and use XviD VBR Library instead of DivX4
VBR.
Available options are:
.
.RSss
0: one pass encoding (as in not putting pass on the command line)
.br
1: Analysis (first) pass of two pass encoding.
The resulting AVI file can be directed to /dev/null.
.br
2: Final (second) pass of two pass encoding.
.REss
.RE
.
.TP
.B \-endpos <[[hh:]mm:]ss[.ms]|size[b|kb|mb]> (see \-ss and \-sb option too)
Stop encoding at given time or byte position.
Can be specified in many ways:

.I NOTE:
.br
Byte position won't be accurate, as it can only stop at
a frame boundary.

.I EXAMPLE:
.PD 0
.RSs
.IPs "\-endpos 56"
encode only 56 seconds
.IPs "\-endpos 01:10:00"
encode only 1 hour 10 minutes
.IPs "\-endpos 100mb"
encode only 100 MBytes
.RE
.PD 1
.
.TP
.B \-ffourcc <fourcc>
Can be used to override the video fourcc of the output file.

.I EXAMPLE:
.PD 0
.RSs
.IPs "-ffourcc div3"
will have the output file contain 'div3' as video fourcc.
.RE
.PD 1
.
.TP
.B \-include <configuration\ file>
Specify configuration file to be parsed after the default ones.
.TP
.B \-info <option1:option2:...> (AVI only)
Specify the info header of the resulting AVI file.
.br
Available options are:
.
.RSs
.IPs help
show this description
.IPs name=<value>
title of the subject of the file
.IPs artist=<value>
artist or author of the original subject of the file
.IPs genre=<value>
original work category
.IPs subject=<value>
contents of the file
.IPs copyright=<value>
copyright information for the file
.IPs srcform=<value>
original form of the material that was digitized
.IPs comment=<value>
general comments about the file or the subject of the file
.RE
.
.TP
.B \-lameopts <option1:option2:...>
If encoding to MP3 with libmp3lame, you can specify its parameters here.
.br
Available options are:
.
.RSs
.IPs help
get help
.IPs vbr=<0\-4>
variable bitrate method
.RSss
0: cbr
.br
1: mt
.br
2: rh (default)
.br
3: abr
.br
4: mtrh
.REss
.IPs abr\ \ 
average bitrate
.IPs cbr\ \ 
constant bitrate.
.br
Forces also CBR mode encoding on subsequent ABR presets modes
.IPs br=<0\-1024>
specify bitrate in kBit (CBR and ABR only)
.IPs q=<0\-9>
quality (0-highest, 9-lowest) (only for VBR)
.IPs aq=<0\-9>
algorithmic quality (0-best/\:slowest, 9-worst/\:fastest)
.IPs ratio=<1\-100>
compression ratio
.IPs vol=<0\-10>
set audio input gain
.IPs mode=<0\-3>
(default: auto)
.RSss
0: stereo
.br
1: joint-stereo
.br
2: dualchannel
.br
3: mono
.REss
.IPs padding=<0\-2>
.RSss
0: no
.br
1: all
.br
2: adjust
.REss
.IPs fast
switch on faster encoding on subsequent VBR presets modes, slightly lower 
quality and higher bitrates.
.IPs preset=<value>
preset values
.RSss
medium: VBR encoding, good quality, 150\-180 kbps bitrate range.
.br
standard: VBR encoding, high quality, 170\-210 kbps bitrate range.
.br
extreme: VBR encoding, very high quality, 200\-240 kbps bitrate range.
.br
insane: CBR encoding, highest preset quality, 320 kbps bitrate.
.br
<8-320>: ABR encoding at average given kbps bitrate.
.br
.REss
.RE

.I EXAMPLE:
.PD 0
.RSs
.IPs "\-lameopts fast:preset=standard"
for most people on most music and already quite high in quality.
.IPs "\-lameopts  cbr:preset=192"
encode with ABR presets at a 192 kbps forced constant bitrate.
.IPs "\-lameopts      preset=172"
encode with ABR presets at a 172 kbps average bitrate.
.IPs "\-lameopts      preset=extreme"
for people with extremely good hearing and similar equipment.
.IPs "\-lameopts preset=help"
print additional options and informations on presets settings.
.RE
.PD 1
.
.TP
.B \-lavcopts <option1:option2:...>
If encoding with libavcodec, you can specify its parameters
here.

.I EXAMPLE:
.PD 0
.RSs
\-lavcopts vcodec=msmpeg4:vbitrate=1800:vhq:keyint=250
.RE
.PD 1

.RS
Available options are:
.RE
.
.RSs
.IPs vcodec=<value>
use the specified codec (there is no default, you must specify it):
.RSss
mjpeg: Motion JPEG
.br
h263: H263
.br
h263p: H263 Plus
.br
mpeg4: DivX 4/\:5
.br
msmpeg4: DivX 3
.br
msmpeg4v2: MS MPEG4v2
.br
wmv1: Windows Media Video 7
.br
wmv2: Windows Media Video 8
.br
rv10: an old RealVideo codec
.br
mpeg1video: MPEG1 video :)
.br
huffyuv: HuffYUV
.REss
.IPs vqmin=<1\-31>
minimum quantizer (pass\ 1/\:2)
.RSss
1: Not recommended (much larger file, little quality difference and weird side
effects: msmpeg4, h263 will be very low quality, ratecontrol will be confused
resulting in lower quality and some decoders will not be able to decode it).
.br
2: Recommended for normal mpeg4/mpeg1video encoding (default).
.br
3: Recommended for h263(p)/msmpeg4. The reason for preferring 3 over 2 is that
2 could lead to overflows (this will be fixed for h263(p) by changing the
quantizer per MB in the future, msmpeg4 cannot be fixed as it does not support
that)
.REss
.IPs vqscale=<1\-31>
Constant quantizer /\: constant quality encoding (selects fixed quantizer mode).
A lower value means better quality but larger files (default: 0 (disabled)).
1 is not recommended (see \-vqmin for details).
.IPs vqmax=<1\-31>
maximum quantizer (pass\ 1/\:2) 10\-31 should be a sane range (default: 31)
.IPs mbqmin=<1\-31>
minimum macroblock quantizer (pass\ 1/\:2) (default: 2)
.IPs mbqmax=<1\-31>
maximum macroblock quantizer (pass\ 1/\:2) (default: 31)
.IPs vqdiff=<1\-31>
maximum quantizer difference between I or P frames (pass\ 1/\:2) (default: 3)
.IPs vmax_b_frames=<0\-4>
maximum number of B frames between non B frames:
.RSss
0: no B frames (default)
.br
0\-2: sane range for MPEG4
.REss
.IPs vme=<0\-5>
motion estimation method:
.RSss
0: none (very low quality)
.br
1: full (slow)
.br
2: log (low quality)
.br
3: phods (low quality)
.br
4: EPZS (default)
.br
5: X1 (experimental)
Note: 0\-3 currently ignores the amount of Bits spent, so quality may be low.
.REss
.IPs vhq\ \ 
high quality mode, encode each macro block in all modes and choose the best.
This is slow but results in better quality and file size.
(default: disabled)
.IPs v4mv
Allow 4 motion vectors per macroblock (slightly better quality).
(default: disabled)
.IPs keyint=<0\-300>
maximum interval between keyframes in frames.
Keyframes are needed for seeking as seeking is only possible to a keyframe but
keyframes need more space than other frames so larger numbers here mean
slightly smaller files, but less precise seeking, 0 means no key frames.
Values >300 are not recommended as the quality might be bad depending upon
decoder, encoder and luck.
For a strict MPEG1/\:2/\:4 compliance this would have to be <=132.
(default: 250 or one key frame every ten seconds in a 25fps movie)
.IPs vb_strategy=<0\-1>
strategy to choose between I/\:P/\:B frames (pass\ 2):
.RSss
0: always use the maximum number of B frames (default)
.br
1: avoid B frames in high motion scenes (will cause bitrate misprediction)
.REss
.IPs vpass=<1\-2>
Activates internal two pass mode, only specify if you wish to use two pass
encoding (default: disabled).
.RSss
1: first pass
.br
2: second pass
.REss
.IPs
Tip: Try to use constant quantizer mode for pass one (vqscale=<quantizer>).
.br
huffyuv:
.RSss
pass 1 saves statistics
.br
pass 2 encodes with an optimal Huffman table based upon pass 1 statistics.
.REss
.IPs aspect=<x/y>
Store movie aspect internally, just like MPEG files.
Much nicer solution than rescaling, because quality isn't decreased.
Only MPlayer will play these files correctly, other players will display
them with wrong aspect.
The aspect parameter can be given as a ratio or a floating point number.
Example:
.RSss
aspect=16/9, aspect=1.78
.REss
.IPs vbitrate=<value>
specify bitrate (pass\ 1/\:2) in
.RSss
kBit <4\-16000> or
.br
Bit  <16001\-24000000>
.br
(warning: 1kBit = 1000 Bits)
.br
(default: 800)
.REss
.IPs vratetol=<value>
approximated filesize tolerance in kBit. 1000\-100000 is a sane range.
(warning: 1kBit = 1000 Bits)
(default: 8000)
.IPs vrc_maxrate=<value>
maximum bitrate in kbit/\:sec (pass\ 1/\:2)
.IPs vrc_minrate=<value>
minimum bitrate in kbit/\:sec (pass\ 1/\:2)
.IPs vrc_buf_size=<value>
buffer size in kbit (pass\ 1/\:2).
Note: vratetol should not be too large during the second pass or there might
be problems if vrc_(min|max)rate is used.
.IPs vb_qfactor=<-31.0\-31.0>
quantizer factor between B and non B frames (pass\ 1/\:2) (default: 1.25)
.IPs vi_qfactor=<-31.0\-31.0>
(pass\ 1/\:2) (default: 0.8)
.IPs vb_qoffset=<-31.0\-31.0>
quantizer offset between B and non B frames (pass\ 1/\:2) (default: 1.25)
.IPs vi_qoffset=<-31.0\-31.0>
(pass\ 1/\:2) (default: 0.0)
.br
if v{b|i}_qfactor > 0
.br
I/\:B-Frame quantizer = P-Frame quantizer * v{b|i}_qfactor + v{b|i}_qoffset
.br
else
.br
do normal ratecontrol (dont lock to next P frame quantizer) and
set q= -q * v{b|i}_qfactor + v{b|i}_qoffset
.IPs
Tip: To do constant quantizer encoding with different quantizers for
I/P and B frames you can use:
vqmin=<ip_quant>:vqmax=<ip_quant>:vb_qfactor=<b_quant/ip_quant>
.IPs vqblur=<0.0\-1.0>
quantizer blur (pass1) Larger values will average the quantizer more over
time (slower change).
.RSss
0.0: qblur disabled
.br
0.5 (default)
.br
1.0: average the quantizer over all previous frames
.REss
.IPs vqblur=<0.0\-99.0>
quantizer gaussian blur (pass2) Larger values will average the quantizer more
over time (slower change) (default: 0.5)
.IPs vqcomp=<value>
quantizer compression, depends upon vrc_eq (pass\ 1/\:2) (default: 0.5)
.IPs vrc_eq=<equation>
main ratecontrol equation (pass\ 1/\:2):

1: constant bitrate
.br
tex: constant quality
.br
1+(tex/\:avgTex-1)*qComp: approximately the equation of the old ratecontrol
code
.br
tex^qComp: with qcomp 0.5 or something like that (default)

infix operators: +,-,*,/,^

variables:
.br
tex:             texture complexity
.br
iTex,pTex:       intra, non intra texture complexity
.br
avgTex:          average texture complexity
.br
avgIITex:        average intra texture complexity in I frames
.br
avgPITex:        average intra texture complexity in P frames
.br
avgPPTex:        average non intra texture complexity in P frames
.br
avgBPTex:        average non intra texture complexity in B frames
.br
mv:              Bits used for motion vectors
.br
fCode:           maximum length of motion vector in log2 scale
.br
iCount:          number of intra macro blocks / number of macro blocks
.br
var:             spatial complexity
.br
mcVar:           temporal complexity
.br
qComp:           qcomp from the command line
.br
isI, isP, isB:   is 1 if picture type is I/\:P/\:B else 0
.br
Pi,E:            see your favorite math book

functions:
.br
max(a,b),min(a,b): maximum / minimum
.br
gt(a,b): is 1 if a>b, 0 otherwise
.br
lt(a,b): is 1 if a<b, 0 otherwise
.br
eq(a,b): is 1 if a==b, 0 otherwise
.br
sin, cos, tan, sinh, cosh, tanh, exp, log, abs
.
.IPs vrc_override=<options>
User specified quality for specific parts (ending, credits, ..) (pass\ 1/\:2).
The options are <start-frame>, <end-frame>, <quality>[/\:<start-frame>,
<end-frame>, <quality>[/...]]:
.RSss
quality 2\-31: quantizer
.br
quality \-500\-0: quality correction in %
.REss
.IPs vrc_init_cplx=<0\-1000>
initial complexity (pass\ 1)
.IPs vqsquish=<0,1>
specify how to keep the quantizer between qmin and qmax (pass\ 1/\:2):
.RSss
0: use clipping
.br
1: use a nice differentiable function (default)
.REss
.IPs vlelim=<-1000\-1000>
single coefficient elimination threshold for luminance.
Negative values will also consider the dc coefficient (should be at least -4
or lower for encoding at quant=1):
.RSss
0: disabled (default)
.br
-4 (JVT recommendation)
.REss
.IPs vcelim=<-1000\-1000>
single coefficient elimination threshold for chrominance.
Negative values will also consider the dc coefficient (should be at least -4
or lower for encoding at quant=1):
.RSss
0 disabled (default)
.br
7 (JVT recommendation)
.REss
.IPs vstrict=<-1,0,1>
strict standard compliance
.RSss
0: disabled (default)
.br
1: only recommended if you want to feed the output into the mpeg4
reference decoder
.br
-1: allows non-standard YV12 huffyuv encoding (20% smaller files, but
cannot be played by the official huffyuv codec)
.REss
.IPs vdpart
data partitioning.
Adds 2 Bytes per video packet, improves error-resistance when transferring over
unreliable channels (eg.\& streaming over the internet)
Each video packet will be encoded in 3 separate partitions:
.RSss
1. MVs             (=movement)
.br
2. DC coefficients (=low res picture)
.br
3. AC coefficients (=details)
.REss
.IPs
MV & DC are most important, loosing them looks far worse than loosing the
AC and the 1. & 2. partition. (MV&DC) are far smaller than the 3. partition
(AC) meaning that errors will hit the AC partition much more often than the
MV&DC partitions. Thus, the picture will look better with partitioning than
without, as without partitioning an error will trash AC/DC/MV equally.
.IPs vpsize=<0\-10000>
video packet size, improves error-resistance (see \-vdpart option too):
.RSss
0: disabled (default)
.br
100-1000: good choice
.REss
.IPs gray
grayscale only encoding (faster) (default: disabled)
.IPs vfdct=<0\-10>
dct algorithm:
.RSss
0: automatically select a good one (default)
.br
1: fast integer
.br
2: accurate integer
.br
3: mmx
.br
4: mlib
.REss
.IPs idct=<0\-99>
idct algorithm.
Note: To the best of our knowledge all these IDCTs do pass the IEEE1180
tests.
.RSss
0: automatically select a good one (default)
.br
1: jpeg reference integer
.br
2: simple
.br
3: simplemmx
.br
4: libmpeg2mmx (inaccurate, DON'T USE for encoding with keyint >100)
.br
5: ps2
.br
6: mlib
.br
7: arm
.REss
.IPs lumi_mask=<0.0\-1.0>
luminance masking.
Warning: Be careful, too large values can cause disastrous things.
Warning2: Large values might look good on some monitors but may look horrible
on other monitors:
.RSss
0.0: disabled (default)
.br
0.0\-0.3: sane range
.REss
.IPs dark_mask=<0.0\-1.0>
darkness masking.
Warning: be careful, too large values can cause disasterous things.
Warning2: large values might look good on some monitors but may look horrible
on other monitors / TV / TFT:
.RSss
0.0: disabled (default)
.br
0.0\-0.3: sane range
.REss
.IPs tcplx_mask=<0.0\-1.0>
temporal complexity masking (default: 0.0 (disabled))
.IPs scplx_mask=<0.0\-1.0>
spatial complexity masking.
Larger values help against blockiness, if no deblocking filter is used for
decoding.
Tip: Crop any black borders completely as they will reduce the quality
of the macro blocks (also applies without scplx_mask).
.RSss
0.0: disabled (default)
.br
0.0\-0.5: sane range
.REss
.IPs naq\ \ 
Normalize adaptive quantization (experimental).
When using adaptive quantization (*_mask), the average per-MB quantizer may no
longer match the requested frame-level quantizer.
Naq will attempt to adjust the per-MB quantizers to maintain the proper
average.
.IPs ildct
use interlaced dct
.IPs format=<value>
.RSss
YV12: default
.br
422P: for huffyuv
.REss
.IPs pred
(for huffyuv)
.RSss
0: left prediction
.br
1: plane/gradient prediction
.br
2: median prediction
.REss
.IPs qpel
use quarter pel motion compensation
Tip: This seems only useful for high bitrate encodings.
.IPs precmp=<0\-2000>
comparison function for motion estimation pre pass
.IPs cmp=<0\-2000>
comparison function for full pel motion estimation
.IPs subcmp=<0\-2000>
comparison function for sub pel motion estimation
.RSss
0 (SAD): sum of absolute differences, fast (default)
.br
1 (SSE): sum of squared errors
.br
2 (SATD): sum of absolute hadamard transformed differences
.br
3 (DCT): sum of absolute dct transformed differences
.br
4 (PSNR): sum of the squared quantization errors (don't use, low quality)
.br
5 (BIT): number of bits needed for the block
.br
6 (RD): rate distortion optimal, slow
.br
7 (ZERO): 0
.br
+256: use chroma too, doesn't work (correctly) with B frames currently
.REss
.IPs predia=<\-99\-6>
Diamond type and size for motion estimation pre pass
.IPs dia=<\-99\-6>
Diamond type & size for motion estimation.
Note: The sizes of the normal diamonds and shape adaptive ones dont have the same meaning
.RSss
\-3: shape adaptive (fast) diamond with size 3
.br
\-2: shape adaptive (fast) diamond with size 2
.br
\-1: experimental
.br
 1: normal size=1 diamond (default) =EPZS type diamond
.nf
.ne
      0 
     000
      0 
.fi
.br
 2: normal size=2 diamond
.nf
.ne
      0  
     000 
    00000
     000 
      0  
.fi
.REss
.IPs trell
Trellis quantization.
This will find the optimal encoding for each 8x8 block.
Trellis quantization is quite simple a optimal quantization in the PSNR vs
bitrate sense (assuming that there would be no rounding errors introduced 
by the IDCT, which is obviously not the case) it simply finds a block for
the minimum of error and lambda*bits.
.RSss
lambda: qp dependant constant
.br
bits: amount of bits needed to encode the block
.br
error: sum of squared errors of the quantization
.REss
.IPs last_pred=<0\-99>
Amount of motion predictors from the previous frame
.RSss
0: (default)
.br
a: will use 2a+1 x 2a+1 macro block square of motion vector predictors from
the previous frame
.REss
.IPs preme=<0\-2> 
motion estimation pre-pass
.RSss
0: disabled
.br
1: only after I frames (default)
.br
2: always
.REss
.IPs subq=<1\-8>
subpel refinement quality (for qpel) (default: 8).
Note: This has a significant effect on the speed.
.IPs psnr
print the psnr (peak signal to noise ratio) for the whole video after encoding
and store the per frame psnr in a file with a name like 'psnr_hhmmss.log'.
Returned values are in dB (decibel), the higher the better.
.IPs mpeg_quant
use MPEG quantizers instead of H.263.
(default: disabled) (i.e.\& use H.263 quantizers)
.IPs aic
advanced intra prediction (H.263+ only)
Note: vqmin should be 8 or larger.
.IPs umv
unlimited MVs (H.263+ only)
Allow encoding of abritarily long MVs.
.IPs ibias=<\-256\-256>
intra quantizer bias (256 == 1.0)
.br
mpeg style quantizer default: 96
.br
h263 style quantizer default: 0
.br
Note: the h263 MMX quantizer cannot handle positive biases (set vfdct=1or2)
      the mpeg MMX quantizer cannot handle negative biases (set vfdct=1or2)
.IPs pbias=<\-256\-256>
inter quantizer bias (256 == 1.0)
.br
mpeg style quantizer default: 0
.br
h263 style quantizer default: -64
.br
Note: the h263 MMX quantizer cannot handle positive biases (set vfdct=1or2)
      the mpeg MMX quantizer cannot handle negative biases (set vfdct=1or2)
.RE
.
.TP
.B \-noskip
Do not skip frames.
.TP
.B \-o <filename>
Outputs to the given filename, instead of the default 'test.avi'.
.TP
.B \-oac <codec name>
Encode with the given audio codec.
Use \-oac help to get a list of available codecs.
(no default set)

.I EXAMPLE:
.PD 0
.RSs
.IPs "-oac copy"
no encoding, just streamcopy
.IPs "-oac pcm"
encode to uncompressed PCM
.IPs "-oac mp3lame"
encode to MP3 (using Lame)
.RE
.PD 1
.
.TP
.B \-of <format> (BETA CODE!)
Encode to the specified format.
Use \-of help to get a list of available formats.

.I EXAMPLE:
.PD 0
.RSs
.IPs "-of avi"
encode to avi (default)
.IPs "-of mpeg"
encode to mpeg
.RE
.PD 1
.
.TP
.B \-ofps <fps>
The output file will have different frame/\:sec than the source.
You MUST set it for variable fps (asf, some mov) and progressive
(29.97fps telecined mpeg) files.
.TP
.B \-ovc <codec name>
Encode with the given video codec.
Use \-ovc help to get a list of available codecs.
(no default set)

.I EXAMPLE:
.PD 0
.RSs
.IPs "\-ovc copy"
no encoding, just streamcopy
.IPs "\-ovc divx4"
encode to DivX4/\:DivX5
.IPs "\-ovc rawrgb"
encode to uncompressed RGB24
.IPs "\-ovc lavc"
encode with a libavcodec codecs
.RE
.PD 1
.
.TP
.B \-passlogfile <filename>
When encoding in 2pass mode, MEncoder dumps first pass' informations
to the given file instead of the default divx2pass.log.
.TP
.B \-skiplimit <value>
Maximal skipable frames after non-skipped one
(-noskiplimit for unlimited number).
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
Increment verbose level (more \-v means more verbosity).

.PD 0
.RSs
.IPs 0
only some informal output (default)
.IPs 1
some basic debug infos, avi header, function values (init debug)
.IPs 2
print avi indexes, chunk inputs, more debug infos (player debug)
.IPs 3
prints everything related to input parsers (parser debug)
.RE
.PD 1
.
.TP
.B \-vobsubout <basename>
Specify the basename for the output .idx and .sub files.
This turns off subtitle rendering in the encoded movie and diverts it to
Vobsub subtitle files.
.TP
.B \-vobsuboutindex <index>
Specify the index of the subtitles in the output files.
(default: 0)
.TP
.B \-vobsuboutid <langid>
Specify the language two letter code for the subtitles.
This overrides what is read from the DVD or the .ifo file.
.TP
.B \-xvidencopts <option1:option2:...>
If encoding to XviD, you can specify its parameters here.
.br
There's three modes available: constant bitrate (CBR), fixed quantizer and
2pass.
.br
Available options are:
.
.RSs
.IPs pass=<1|2>
specify the pass in 2pass mode
.IPs bitrate=<value>
sets the bitrate to be used in kbits/\:second if <16000 or in bits/\:second
if >16000
(CBR or 2pass mode, default=687 kbits/s)
.IPs fixed_quant=<1\-31>
switch to fixed quantizer mode and specify the quantizer to be used
.IPs me_quality=<0\-6>
specify the motion detection quality (default=4)
.IPs interlacing
enable support for interlaced content (default=off)
.IPs 4mv
use 4 motion vectors per macro-block, might give better compression at the
cost of a slower encoding (default=off)
.IPs rc_reaction_delay_factor=<value>
specify how fast the rate control reacts, lower values are faster
.IPs rc_averaging_period=<value>
period to reach the required average
.IPs rc_buffer=<value>
size of the rate control buffer
.IPs quant_range=<1\-31>\-<1\-31>[/<1\-31>\-<1\-31>]
min & max quantizer for all frames (default=2\-31, CBR mode)
.br
min & max quantizer for I/P frames (default=2\-31/2\-31, 2pass mode)
.IPs min_key_interval=<value>
minimum interval between key frames (default=0, 2pass only)
.IPs max_key_interval=<value>
maximum interval between key frames (default=10*fps)
.IPs mpeg_quant
use MPEG quantizers instead of H.263 (default=off)
.IPs mod_quant
decide whether to use MPEG or H.263 quantizers on a frame-by-frame basis.
(default=off, 2pass mode only)
.IPs greyscale
encode in black & white (default=off)
.IPs debug
save per-frame statistics in xvid.dbg (default=off)
.br
this is *not* the 2pass control file
.IPs keyframe_boost=<0\-1000>
(default=0, 2pass mode only)
.IPs kfthreshold=<value>
(default=10, 2pass mode only)
.IPs kfreduction=<0\-100>
(default=30, 2pass mode only)
.RE
.br
The folowing options are only available with the unstable (cvs -HEAD)
version of XviD. Be warned that these options are experimental and may
not work as intended.
.
.RSS
.IPs packed
create a bitstream that can be decoded delay-free (default=off)
.br
WARNING: this will generate an illegal bitstream, and WILL NOT be 
decodeable by ISO-MPEG4 deocoders except divx/libavcodec/xvid
.br
WARNING: this will allso store a fake divx version in the file so the bug
autodetection of some decoders might be confused
.IPs divx5bvop
generate DivX5 compatible B-frames (default=on)
.IPs qpel
enable quarter-pixel motion estimation (default=off)
.IPs gmc
enable global motion compensation, may save bits on panning scenes (default=off)
.IPs chroma_me
uses chroma information to estimate motion (default=off)
.IPs reduced
enable encoding reduced resolution frames (default=off)
.IPs max_bframes=<0\-4>
maximum number of B frames to put between I/P frames (default=0)
.IPs bquant_ratio=<0\-1000>
quantizer ratio between B and non B frames, 150=1.50 (default=150)
.IPs bquant_offset=<-1000\-1000>
quantizer offset between B and non B frames, 100=1.00 (default=100)
.IPs psnr
print the psnr (peak signal to noise ratio) for the whole video after encoding
and store the per frame psnr in a file with a name like 'psnr_hhmmss.log'.
Returned values are in dB (decibel), the higher the better.
.RE


.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" Keyboard control
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------------
.
.SH "KEYBOARD CONTROL"
.I NOTE:
.br
MPlayer has a fully configurable, command driven, control layer
which allow you to control MPlayer using keyboard, mouse, joystick
or remote control (using lirc).
.br
The default configuration file for the input system is
~/.mplayer/\:input.conf but it can be overriden
using the \-input conf option.
.br
These keys may/\:may not work, depending on your video output driver.
.TP
.B general control
.PD 0
.RSs
.IPs "<\- and \->"
seek backward/\:forward 10 seconds
.IPs "up and down"
seek backward/\:forward  1 minute
.IPs "pgup and pgdown"
seek backward/\:forward 10 minutes
.IPs "< and >"
backward/\:forward in playlist
.IPs "HOME and END"
go to next/\:previous playtree entry in the parent list
.IPs "INS and DEL"
go to next/\:previous alternative source (asx playlist only)
.IPs "p / SPACE"
pause movie (any key unpauses)
.IPs "q / ESC"
stop playing and quit
.IPs "+ and \-"
adjust audio delay by +/\:\- 0.1 second
.IPs "/ and *"
decrease/\:increase volume
.IPs "9 and 0"
decrease/\:increase volume
.IPs m\ \ \ \ 
mute sound
.IPs f\ \ \ \ 
toggle fullscreen
.IPs "w and e"
decrease/\:increase panscan range
.IPs o\ \ \ \ 
toggle between OSD states: none / seek / seek+timer
.IPs d\ \ \ \ 
toggle frame dropping
.IPs v\ \ \ \ 
toggle subtitle visibility
.IPs j\ \ \ \ 
switch subtitle language
.IPs a\ \ \ \ 
toggle subtitle aligment: top/middle/bottom
.IPs "z and x"
adjust subtitle delay by +/\:\- 0.1 second
.IPs "r and t"
adjust subtitle position
.IPs "i"
set EDL mark

.PP
(The following keys are valid only when using a hardware accelerated video
output (xv, (x)vidix, (x)mga, etc), or the software equalizer filter
(-vf eq or -vf eq2).

.IPs "1 and 2"
adjust contrast
.IPs "3 and 4"
adjust brightness
.IPs "5 and 6"
adjust hue
.IPs "7 and 8"
adjust saturation
.RE
.PD 1
.
.TP
.B GUI keyboard control
.PD 0
.RSs
.IPs "ENTER"
start playing
.IPs s\ \ \ \ 
stop playing
.IPs l\ \ \ \ 
load file
.IPs c\ \ \ \ 
skin browser
.IPs p\ \ \ \ 
toggle playlist
.RE
.PD 1
.
.TP
.B TV input control
.PD 0
.RSs
.IPs "h and k"
select previous/\:next channel
.IPs n\ \ \ \ 
change norm
.IPs u\ \ \ \ 
change channel list
.RE
.PD 1
.
.TP
.B DVDNAV input control
.PD 0
.RSs
.IPs "K,J,H,L"
browse up/\:down/\:left/\:right
.IPs M\ \ \ \ 
jump to main menu
.IPs S\ \ \ \ 
select
.RE
.PD 1


.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" Slave mode protocol
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------------
.
.SH "SLAVE MODE PROTOCOL"
If the \-slave option is given, playback is controlled by a
line\-based protocol.
Each line must contain one command otherwise one of the following tokens:
.TP
.B Commands
.RSs
.IPs "seek <value> [type=<0/\:1/\:2>]"
Seek to some place in the movie.
Type 0 is a relative seek of +/\:- <value> seconds.
Type 1 seek to <value> % in the movie.
Type 2 is a seek to an absolute position of <value> seconds.
.IPs "audio_delay <value>"
Adjust the audio delay of value seconds
.IPs quit
Quit MPlayer
.IPs pause
Pause/\:unpause the playback
.IPs grap_frames
Somebody know ?
.IPs "pt_step <value> [force=<value>]"
Go to next/\:previous entry in the playtree.
.IPs "pt_up_step <value> [force=<value>]"
Like pt_step but it jumps to next/\:previous in the parent list.
.IPs "alt_src_step <value>"
When more than one source is available it selects the next/\:previous one
(only supported by asx playlist).
.IPs "sub_delay <value> [abs=<value>]"
Adjust the subtitles delay of +/\:- <value> seconds or set it to <value>
seconds when abs is non zero.
.IPs "osd [level=<value>]"
Toggle osd mode or set it to level when level > 0.
.IPs "volume <dir>"
Increase/\:decrease volume
.IPs "[contrast|brightness|hue|saturation] <\-100\-100> [abs=<value>]"
Set/\:Adjust video parameters.
.IPs "frame_drop [type=<value>]"
Toggle/\:Set frame dropping mode.
.IPs "sub_visibility"
Toggle subtitle visibility.
.IPs "sub_pos <value>"
Adjust subtitles position.
.IPs vo_fullscreen
Switch to fullscreen mode.
.IPs "tv_step_channel <dir>"
Select next/\:previous tv channel.
.IPs "tv_step_norm"
Change TV norm.
.IPs "tv_step_chanlist"
Change channel list.
.IPs "gui_[loadsubtitle|about|play|stop]"
GUI actions
.RE


.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" Files
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------------
.
.SH FILES
.TP
/etc/\:mplayer/\:mplayer.conf
system\-wide settings
.TP
~/.mplayer/\:config
user settings
.TP
~/.mplayer/\:input.conf
input bindings (see '\-input keylist' for full keylist)
.TP
~/.mplayer/\:gui.conf
GUI configuration file
.TP
~/.mplayer/\:gui.pl
GUI playlist
.TP
~/.mplayer/\:font/
font directory (There must be a font.desc file and files with .RAW extension.)
.TP
~/.mplayer/\:DVDkeys/
cracked CSS keys
.PD 0
.TP
Sub files
are searched for in this priority (for example /mnt/\:movie/\:movie.avi):
.RSs
/mnt/\:cdrom/\:movie.sub
.br
~/.mplayer/\:sub/\:movie.sub
.br
~/.mplayer/\:default.sub
.RE
.PD 1


.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" Examples
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------------
.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B Quickstart DVD playing
mplayer \-dvd 1
.TP
.B Play in japanese with english subtitles
mplayer \-dvd 1 \-alang ja \-slang en
.TP
.B Play only chapters 5, 6, 7
mplayer \-dvd 1 \-chapter 5\-7
.TP
.B Multiangle DVD playing
mplayer \-dvd 1 \-dvdangle 2
.TP
.B Playing from a different DVD device
mplayer \-dvd 1 \-dvd\-device /dev/\:dvd2
.TP
.B Old style DVD (VOB) playing
mplayer \-dvdauth /dev/\:dvd /mnt/\:dvd/\:VIDEO_TS/\:VTS_02_4.VOB
.TP
.B Stream from HTTP
mplayer http://mplayer.hq/\:example.avi
.TP
.B Stream using RTSP
mplayer rtsp://server.example.com/\:streamName
.TP
.B Convert subtitle to MPsub (to ./\:dump.mpsub)
mplayer dummy.avi \-sub source.sub \-dumpmpsub
.TP
.B Input from standard V4L
mplayer \-tv on:driver=v4l:width=640:height=480:outfmt=i420 \-vc rawi420
\-vo xv
.TP
.B Encoding DVD title #2, only selected chapters
mencoder \-dvd 2 \-chapter 10-15 \-o title2.avi \-oac copy \-ovc divx4
.TP
.B Encoding DVD title #2, resizing to 640x480
mencoder \-dvd 2 \-vf scale=640:480 \-o title2.avi \-oac copy \-ovc divx4
.TP
.B Encoding DVD title #2, resizing to 512xHHH (keep aspect ratio)
mencoder \-dvd 2 \-vf scale \-zoom \-xy 512 \-o title2.avi \-oac copy
\-ovc divx4
.TP
.B The same, but with libavcodec family, MPEG4 (Divx5) compression
mencoder \-dvd 2 \-o title2.avi \-ovc lavc
\-lavcopts vcodec=mpeg4:vhq:vbitrate=1800 \-oac copy
.TP
.B The same, but with libavcodec family, MJPEG compression
mencoder \-dvd 2 \-o titel2.avi \-ovc lavc
\-lavcopts vcodec=mjpeg:vhq:vbitrate=1800 \-oac copy
.TP
.B Encoding all *.jpg files in the current dir
mencoder \\*.jpg \-mf on:fps=25 \-o output.avi \-ovc divx4
.TP
.B Encoding from tuner
mencoder \-tv on:driver=v4l:width=640:height=480 \-o tv.avi \-ovc rawrgb
.TP
.B Encoding from a pipe
rar p test-SVCD.rar | mencoder \-ovc divx4 \-divx4opts br=800 \-ofps 24
\-\- \-
.TP
.B Encoding multiple *.vob files
cat *.vob | mencoder <options> \-


.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" Bugs, authors, standard disclaimer
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------------
.
.SH BUGS
Probably.
PLEASE, double-check the documentation (especially bugreports.html),
the FAQ and the mail archive before!
.br
Send your complete bug reports to the MPlayer-users mailing list at
<mplayer-users@mplayerhq.hu>.
We love complete bug reports :)


.SH AUTHORS
Check documentation.
.TP
MPlayer is (C) 2000\-2003
.B Arpad Gereoffy
.TP
This man page is written and maintained by
.B Gabucino
.br
.B Diego Biurrun
.br
.B Jonas Jermann
.PP
Please send mails about it to the MPlayer-users mailing list.


.SH "STANDARD DISCLAIMER"
Use only at your own risk!
There may be errors and inaccuracies that could be damaging to your system or
your eye.
Proceed with caution, and although this is highly unlikely, the authors don't
take any responsibility for that!
.\" end of file
